YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNTS EVERY DAY HERE NATSUO
HARRISON HERE TO OUR SONG HERE
COUNSELOR WATSON HERE WE'RE
RUNNING OFF HERE AND WE'RE HERE
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE COUNSELOR I'M
HERE BECAUSE WE'RE HERE COMES
BRIGGS CUSTOMER CARNEL HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM MAY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE YOUR AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL
SECOND BY COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL IN
FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO
.
WE DO HOWEVER HAVE AN
INTRODUCTION TODAY IN WHAT IS
GOING TO BE A DELIGHTFULLY
PERIODIC REPORT AND AN UPDATE
FROM OUR FRIENDS AT THE EIGHTY
EIGHT MATT CARPENTER, YOU HAVE
THE CONDOM.
THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
COUNCIL, IT'S MY PLEASURE TO BE
HERE THIS EVENING.
MY NAME IS MATTHEW CARPENTER
OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
OF THE HARBOR AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE RIDE.
I WOULD LIKE TO NOTE I HAVE TWO
OF MY BOARD MEMBERS IN
ATTENDANCE, OUR CHAIR KATHLEEN
COSAC AND BOARD MEMBER RICH
RECHANGED.
SO THANK YOU FOR HAVING US HERE
.
THIS IS THE INAUGURAL UPDATE
FOR US.
WE'LL BE TRADING OFF THE DAY
PROVIDING YOU REAL QUICK LIKE
SPEED DATING UPDATES BEGINNING
OF YOUR MEETINGS WITH SOME
OF THE GOINGS ON FOR OUR TWO
AGENCIES ALTERNATING EACH
MONTH.
SO WHO IS THE RIDE IF YOU DON'T
KNOW WHERE THE PUBLIC TRANSIT
PROVIDER, AN AGENCY FOR THE
GREATER ANN ARBOR AND YPSILANTI
AREAS WE'VE BEEN HERE ABOUT
FIFTY THREE YEARS APPROVED BY
CITIZEN INITIATIVE IN NINETEEN
SIXTY NINE.
SO I'VE BEEN ASKED TO PROVIDE
SOME SOME HIGH LEVEL UPDATES SO
I'LL DO THAT.
SO FIRST AS MANY OF YOU I KNOW
ARE AWARE EVERYTHING WE DO IS
NOW SORT OF CONTEXTUALIZED
WITHIN A NEW LONG RANGE PLAN.
OUR BOARD LAST YEAR APPROVED
OUR TWENTY FIVE YEAR PLAN THE
RIDE TWENTY FORTY FIVE AND THIS
IS NOT ONE OF THOSE STUDIES
THAT SITS ON EXCUSE ME MR.
CARPENTER MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
WHO HAD SIGNS PLEASE KEEP THEM
BELOW SHOULDER LEVEL SO THAT
PEOPLE BEHIND ME KEEP VISIBLE.
PLEASE PROCEED.
THANK YOU.
MY APOLOGIES.
NO WORRIES.
SO LAST OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS
APPROVED OUR OUR FIRST TWENTY
FIVE YEAR LONG RANGE PLAN.
AS I WAS SAYING, IT'S NOT
REALLY A STUDY TO SIT ON A
SHELF IT'S A TO DO LIST AND
WE'RE VERY HAPPY TO ALREADY BE
ABLE TO REPORT REAL MEANINGFUL
PROGRESS ON A LOT OF THE
INITIATIVES THERE.
I SEE IT AS MORE OF A TO DO
LIST SO YOU MAY RECALL THAT
LAST YEAR THE VOTERS OF THIS
AREA APPROVED A MILITARY FOR US
THAT REALLY IS THE FIRST FIVE
YEARS WORTH OF SERVICES OF THAT
TWENTY FIVE YEAR PLAN.
THERE WAS A LOT OF GREAT STUFF
MORE FREQUENT WEEKEND SERVICE
LATER EVENING SERVICE WHICH I
KNOW PARTICULARLY HAS BEEN
SOMETHING THE HOSPITALITY
INDUSTRY IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR
HAS ASKED FOR OVER THE YEARS.
THERE'S A LOT OF GREAT STUFF IN
THERE AND WE'RE GOING TO BEGIN
OUR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT ON THE
DAY OF THOSE PLANS NEXT WEEK.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE ANYONE WITH
AN INTEREST IN LEARNING MORE
ABOUT THOSE SERVICES TO VISIT
OUR WEBSITE CYBORG TO LEARN
MORE THE I THINK THE
CENTERPIECE OF THAT PROPOSAL IS
A NEW REGIONAL EXPRESS BUS
ROUTE BETWEEN DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR AND DOWNTOWN YPSILANTI.
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A FORTY
FIVE MINUTE BUS TRIP, CUT IT BY
A THIRD TO A HALF AN HOUR.
THAT REALLY IS A MEANINGFUL
IMPROVEMENT AND HELPS BRING OUR
TWO COMMUNITIES MUCH CLOSER
TOGETHER.
THAT'S A GOOD SEGWAY TO A THANK
YOU TO THIS BODY AND YOUR YOUR
ENTIRE COMMUNITY FOR YOUR TI
ONE ZONING YOUR TRANSIT SUPPORT
OF ZONING.
WE'RE VERY EXCITED TO BE A PART
OF THAT.
I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR THE
FORWARD
THINKING THAT IS
INHERENT IN THERE.
A LOT OF COMMUNITIES ARE
THINKING ABOUT DENSITY OR MIXED
USE OR PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED WORK
BUT NOT EVERYONE'S MADE THAT
CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC TRANSIT
THAT WE CAN THAT LONGER
DISTANCE MODE OF TRANSIT THAT
COMPLEMENTS NOT MOTORIZED AND
PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITIES.
WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO THAT.
WE'VE BEEN HAPPY TO WORK WITH
YOUR STAFF WHETHER IT'S THE AND
EISENHOWER WORK THE STADIUM
WORK WASHTENAW OR MOST RECENTLY
VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE
POTENTIALS FOR THAT REALLY ARE
AND ON THAT IS TO MAKE SURE THE
SERVICES ARE GREAT, THAT
THEY'RE REALLY ATTRACTIVE, THAT
THEY CAN BE AN ATTRACTIVE
ALTERNATIVE TO THE SINGLE
OCCUPANT VEHICLE HELP PEOPLE
GET OUT OF THE CAR.
SO WE'RE WITH YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO HOLD UP OUR END
OF THAT.
WE'RE DOING A LOT OF WORK ON
EQUITY IN THE NEXT COUPLE
OF YEARS AND FOR US BECAUSE WE
SERVE ANN ARBOR IN YPSILANTI
THIS FIVE YEARS IS REALLY ABOUT
BRINGING YPSILANTI UP TO THE
SAME LEVEL OF AWESOME FRANKLY
THAT ANN ARBOR HAS ENJOYED FOR
MANY YEARS.
WE'RE DOING A LOT OF WORK ON
THEIR DOWNTOWN BUS TERMINAL IN
TERM IN PREPARATION FOR BETTER
SERVICES THERE.
WE WANT TO THANK SENATOR PETERS
AND REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL FOR
THEIR MULTIMILLION SUPPORT.
YOU CAN'T CALL THEM EARMARKS
ANYMORE CONGRESSIONALLY
DIRECTED FUNDING I THINK IS THE
PHRASE A LOT OF WORK AND
FINANCIAL SUPPORT HAS BEEN
PROVIDED TO HELP US REBUILD
THAT TRANSIT CENTER.
WE'RE EXCITED ABOUT THAT.
OUR BOARD IS DOING SOME
IMPORTANT WORK THAT THEY'LL
PROBABLY BE REACHING OUT TO YOU
ON.
THEY GIVE ME AND STAFF
DIRECTION THROUGH WRITTEN
POLICIES AND THEY WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT THEIR POLICIES ARE
REFLECTIVE OF WHAT YOU THE
APPOINTING BODY WANT TO SEE SO
THEY'LL BE REACHING OUT TO YOU
IN DUE COURSE TO TRY TO FIGURE
OUT THE BEST WAY TO HAVE THOSE
CONVERSATIONS AND THEN THE
FINAL UPDATE I'D LIKE TO GIVE
YOU SOMETHING I'M REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT AND WE'RE JUST
LAUNCHING THIS WEEK EXCUSE ME
JUST TODAY WE'VE ROLLED OUT THE
PUBLIC PART OF OUR ZERO
EMISSIONS BUS PROPULSION WORK.
THERE ARE TWO GREAT WAYS THAT
WE CAN HELP SORT OF HOLD UP THE
EIGHT TO ZERO PROMISE
OF REDUCING CARBON , ONE
OF WHICH IS GETTING PEOPLE OUT
OF THEIR CARS.
THE OTHER IS OF COURSE REDUCING
OUR OWN FOOTPRINT.
SO WE WILL BE THIS THURSDAY
HAVING OUR OWN BOARD MEETING.
WE WILL BE PRESENTING OUR BOARD
WITH A STAFF PROPOSAL TO
PURCHASE TWO HYDROGEN BUSSES
AND A FUELING STATION, RUN THEM
FOR A LITTLE WHILE AS A TEST,
AS A PILOT, AS A LEARNING
OPPORTUNITY.
PRETTY CONFIDENT IN THE
TECHNOLOGY BUT WE NEED TO LEARN
AND USE THIS NEW TYPE
OF TECHNOLOGY IF SUCCESSFUL AND
I HAVE EVERY REASON TO BELIEVE
IT WILL BE.
THIS WILL LEAD TO A GRADUAL
FLEET TRANSITION WHERE WE PHASE
OUR OLDER DIESEL BUSSES AND
PHASE THEM IN WITH SOMETHING
THAT PRODUCES NO POLLUTION.
THE TAILPIPE SO VERY EXCITED
ABOUT ALL THOSE UPDATES.
THERE'S A LOT OF INFORMATION ON
OUR WEBSITE.
MR. MAYOR, FOR YOU ANY MEMBER
OF COUNCIL OR ANY MEMBER OF THE
PUBLIC WHO WOULD LIKE MORE
INFORMATION, I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
VISIT THE RIDE DOG TO LEARN
MORE AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO
SEEING ALL OF YOU ON OUR PUBLIC
INVOLVEMENT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GRATEFUL FOR YOUR VISIT AND THE
UPDATE WE NOW COME TO YOU AND I
SHOULD SAY TO COUNCIL MEMBERS
IF AT SOME POINT YOU HAVE
QUESTIONS FOR MR. CARPENTER AND
OR THE RIDE, PLEASE FEEL FREE
TO COMMUNICATE TO HIM DIRECTLY
ON THAT OR HIS DESIGNEE.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT,
RESERVED TIME, PUBLIC COMMENT,
RESERVED TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES BOTH
HERE AND ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE TIME
CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS.
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS BOB
JACKSON.
GOOD EVENING.
I WAS HOPING TO SPEAK LAST
ACTUALLY BUT THAT'S OK.
SO GIVEN JUST THE CURRENT
EVENTS OF OF WHAT'S GOING ON
TODAY I JUST WANTED TO YOU KNOW
I'M VERY MUSLIM AND I JUST
WANTED TO EXTEND A A SENSE
OF PEACE AND A SENSE OF YOU
KNOW, LIKE POSITIVITY.
I KNOW THE PALESTINIAN GAZA
ISSUE IS VERY, VERY, VERY
DIVISIVE IN IN AND DRAWS OUT
PEOPLE'S VERY RAW PASSIONS IN
PUBLIC NEWS THERE'S TALK
OF CERTAIN GROUPS BEING
BLACKLISTED AND YOU KNOW,
REVENGE ON THAT.
IN THE NEWS TODAY THERE WAS A
YOUNG MOTHER AND HER SON WHO
WERE ATTACKED AND MURDERED AND
I'M PURPOSELY OMITTING WHO WAS
WHO IN THIS IN THIS SITUATION
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK IT REALLY
MATTERS THAT THE ISSUE IS THAT
WE HAVE THIS TRAGEDY AND THIS
KIND OF WHAT SEEMS TO BE A
LITTLE BIT OF SPILLOVER AND YOU
KNOW, SOME SPIRALING.
SO I FIND THAT UNFORTUNATE AND
I THINK I WOULD LIKE TO REMIND
EVERYBODY THAT, YOU KNOW,
WHATEVER OUR RELIGIOUS
CONVICTIONS ARE THAT PEACE AND
HARMONY ARE BRING US TOGETHER.
SO SPECIFICALLY FROM MY PEOPLE,
THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY.
I WOULD LIKE TO REMIND OF LET'S
SEE HERE SODERTALJE HAD A 40
AND I'LL READ QUICKLY THOSE WHO
HAVE BEEN EVICTED FROM THEIR
HOMES WITHOUT RIGHT ONLY
BECAUSE THEY SAY OUR LORD IS A
LAW AND WE'RE NOT THAT A LOT
OF CHECKS TO PEOPLE SOMETIMES
THE BROTHERS DO WOULD HAVE BEEN
DEMOLISHED MONASTERIES,
CHURCHES, SYNAGOGUES, MOSQUES
IN WHICH THE NAME OF THE IS
MUCH MENTIONED AND A LAW WILL
CERTAINLY SUPPORT THOSE WHO
SUPPORT HIM A LOT AS POWERFUL
AND IN EXALTED IN MY AND I WANT
TO POINT OUT TO YOUR
MONASTERIES, CHURCHES,
SYNAGOGUES AND MOSQUES LAMBIEL
WELL BEYOND THE ON MESSAGE,
RIGHT.
SO MUSLIMS HAVE A DUTY TO
PROTECT THOSE WHO WHOSE FAITH
WE DON'T SHARE.
IT'S RIGHT HERE IN THE KORAN
AND I WOULD LIKE TO REMIND LIKE
TO REMIND EVERYBODY OF THAT AS
WELL AS THE FACT THAT OVERBILL
UNIVERS EVERY SINGLE DAY
PRONOUNCED ANNOUNCE LOMAS ALLAH
ALLAH MOHAMMED BILAL MUHAMMED
MAY BESTOW BLESSINGS ON
MOHAMMED AND HIS FAMILY AS LATE
AS ABRAHIM ALREADY IBRAHIM AS
YOU HAVE BESTOWED BLESSINGS ON
IBRAHIM AND THE FAMILY
OF IBRAHIM WE SHARE A
BROTHERHOOD.
WE SHARE A UNITY HERE.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO EMPHASIZE
THAT FOR EVERYBODY HERE TONIGHT
I KNOW THIS IS A VERY RAW RAW
TOPIC.
I COULD HEAR MY VOICE SHAKEN
AND THAT'S ALL YOUR AND
SHALOM.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG.
MR STOLLBERG PHONE NUMBER FIVE
THREE FOUR KOHAT.
THANK YOU.
LOWER DOWN AND THEN OVER
WISHING FOR EVERYONE EVERYWHERE
LIKE MR STALBERG POSITION.
YES.
I'M SORRY THERE WAS AN
INTERRUPTION HOUSE PLEASE
CONTINUE WITH BE ONE PARTY
OF THE EXCELLENT USE OF THE
MILITARY MONEY THAT WE VOTED IN
FOR MY PEOPLE A THIRD OF WHAT
WE COMMONLY CALLED GREEN THAT
IS UP AT THE CITY PARK
REQUISITION AND IN PARTICULAR
EXCELLENT PETROL FOR THAT AND I
HOPE WE CONTINUE TO MONITOR
THAT AMOUNT OF MONEY AND SPEND
IT WISELY.
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON DC
SEVEN ABOUT THE RESOLUTION.
I THANK YOU FOR PUTTING THIS
RESOLUTION UNDER THINK ABOUT
THE AND THAT WHEN I WOKE UP IN
WASHINGTON THERE WAS A
POTENTIAL FOR HE WAS TOLD HE
HAD TO HAVE A VOTE, HAD TO BE
OUR CITY THE TOP OF HIM WITHOUT
THAT I HAVE A VERY PRELIMINARY
TALKS EVERYBODY TO RFE ABOUT
THAT MEETING.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT.
ONE IS THE FACT THAT IS A
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION IN
PARTICULAR I AM NOT IN SUPPORT
OF THE NOMINATION.
I AM CURRENTLY ON BOARD OF THE
HISTORIC FOUNDATION.
I WON THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
MY BROTHER IS HERE TO CHAIR.
I WAS ON THE BOARD FOR TWO
YEARS.
I'M CURRENTLY ON THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT WORK COMMITTEE.
I'VE BEEN ON THAT FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS AND STUDY COMMITTEE S
HISTORIC DISTRICT STUDY
COMMITTEE.
I KNOW THE EFFECT
OF COMMISSIONS FOR PEOPLE WHO
ARE INTERESTED IN FOLLOWING THE
RULES THAT THE FCC IS BOUND TO
FOLLOW OUR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES SET A FROM THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN AND PEOPLE
APPOINTED TO THEIR BACKGROUND
THAT ARE INTERESTED IN
REGULATION AND INTERESTED IN
THE ROLE THAT THEY ARE SUPPOSED
TO GO ACCORDING TO WHEN
SPECIFICALLY THAT ONE OF THE
PEOPLE NOMINATED BUT NOT HOW
THE ROLE THAT SMITH DID NOT
FOLLOW THE RULES THAT AND THE
CRITERIA UNFORTUNATELY IN THE
PAST SEVERAL YEARS WE KNOW THAT
A NUMBER OF POWERFUL PEOPLE
HAVE NOT BEEN FOLLOWING THE
CRITERIA THAT THEY'RE SUPPOSED
TO FOLLOW ACCORDING TO MICHIGAN
,THAT WOULD BE THE PROBLEM
WITH THE CALIFORNIA OVER THE
PAST COUPLE YEARS.
IT'S NOT MY EXPERT PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THEY HAVE SIMILAR ISSUES NO
REALLY GOOD.
THERE'S BEEN A COUPLE OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE STARTING TO NOW SECOND
APPLY THE CRITERIA
APPROPRIATELY.
IT IS VITAL THAT THE PEOPLE
NOMINATED DO NOT HAVE A HISTORY
OF NOT FOLLOWING THE RULES AND
WHO ARE NOT INTERESTED
PRESERVATION ESPECIALLY PEOPLE
PRESENTLY BEING APPOINTED OUT
THERE JUST THAT AGAIN THE
APPROPRIATE MEASURES THAT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS SHOULD BE
FOLLOWING RULES CRITERIA,
STANDARDS THAT ARE HANDED DOWN
TO THEM QUITE THIS DOWN.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHAEL
KADIAN, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN
OF THE COUNCIL.
MR. MAYOR, GOOD EVENING.
I WAS JUST INFORMED A LITTLE
WHILE AGO THAT ONE OF THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS LED BY ONE
OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS THAT
COMING UP NEXT YEAR WILL BE THE
BISON CELEBRATION AND I THOUGHT
IT WOULD BE A WONDERFUL AND
AMAZING IDEA AS PART OF THAT TO
HOLD A TOWN SHOW HELD IN THE
HILL AUDITORIUM AND THIS WOULD
BE OPEN TO RESIDENTS WHO WOULD
INCLUDING MYSELF WHO WOULD BE
WILLING TO SHARE THEIR
WONDERFUL TALENTS AND I WOULD
READ AN ORIGINAL POEM IF THIS
IS SOMETHING YOU COULD LOOK
INTO, I WOULD BE HONORED TO
PARTICIPATE.
HAVING THE BICENTENNIAL
CELEBRATION IS A FANTASTIC WAY
TO REALLY BRING ANN ARBOR
TOGETHER AND SO LETS YOU KNOW
THIS IS REALLY IT REALLY BRINGS
AN OPERA TOGETHER.
ALL THESE EVENTS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR.
SO LET'S REMAIN PROUD OF BEING
PART OF A TREE TOWN AND AS THE
CITY CONTINUES TO GROW BUT IS
NEVER FORGET OUR RICH CULTURE
AND DIVERSITY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS WILL EPP'S
.
GOOD AFTERNOON AND THANK YOU.
I'LL BE BRIEF TO HONOR THE TIME
FRAME FOR PUBLIC REMARKS.
MY NAME IS WILL AND I WORK AS
AN OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE WITH
MCKINLEY WITH THE LARGEST
OPERATOR OF WORKFORCE HOUSING
IN WASHINGTON COUNTY AND WHILE
I DO IN FACT SPEAK WITH THE
BLESSING OF OUR CEO ROBERT BAER
AS MANY OF YOU KNOW HIM, I ALSO
SPEAK FOR THE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
MEN AND WOMEN WHO DO THE WORK
EVERY DAY SEVEN DAYS A WEEK
SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS, OUR
RESIDENTS, YOUR CONSTITUENTS.
THERE ARE APPROXIMATELY TEN
THOUSAND UNITS OF WORKFORCE
HOUSING IN WASHOE COUNTY AND
THOSE ARE MOSTLY IN PRIVATE
HANDS TODAY.
IN OTHER WORDS, THEIR OWN
MAINLY PRIVATELY THAT BLOCK
OF INVENTORY IS THE LARGEST
SUSTAINABLE BLOCK OF AFFORDABLE
WORKFORCE HOUSING INVENTORY AND
HAS BEEN FOR DECADES IN THE
COUNTY.
THE ONLY NEW INVENTORY WE ADDED
OF ANY SIGNIFICANCE OF ANY
SCALE HAS BEEN THE LUXURY AND
THE SUPER LUXURY HOUSING THAT'S
NORMALLY WALKABLE TO CAMPUS.
NOW THAT INVENTORY AS YOU KNOW
IS IS A MULTIPLE IN RENT FROM
THE EXISTING WORKFORCE HOUSING
COMPONENT IN THE COUNTY AND
IT'S THE ADDITION OF THESE NEW
LUXURY AND SUPER LUXURY UNITS
THAT HAS REALLY DONE NOTHING TO
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF WHAT I
CALL THE THE MISSING MIDDLE.
I SPEAK IN FRONT OF A BOARD
TONIGHT THAT I KNOW APPRECIATES
FACTS AND SO I WANT TO
HIGHLIGHT A FEW FACTS ABOUT
WORKFORCE HOUSING IN OUR COUNTY
AND IN OUR CITY.
THE TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT HUD
HAS AS ITS FMR ITS FAIR MARKET
RATE FOR A TWO BEDROOM
APARTMENT IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
AT THIRTEEN EIGHTY FOUR DOLLARS
A MONTH.
THAT INCLUDES UTILITIES.
THE MACKINLEY TWO BEDROOM
AVERAGE RENT IS THIRTEEN AND
SEVENTY EIGHT DOLLARS A MONTH.
FOURTEEN PERCENT OF ALL OF OUR
UNITS YPSILANTI TOWNSHIP,
PITTSVILLE TOWNSHIP AND IOWA
CITY HOLD PORTABLE SECTION
EIGHT VOUCHERS.
I'M PERSONALLY PROUD OF THAT
AND I CAN TELL YOU THAT THE
HOUSING COMMISSION DO A HECK
OF A JOB IN THIS ENVIRONMENT
WITH SECTION EIGHT.
IT'S A FACT KILLING COMMUNITIES
IN TOTAL IS THE ONLY LARGE
SUSTAINABLE PROFESSIONALLY
MANAGED BLOCK OF WORKFORCE
HOUSING MEETING THE MANY THE
NEEDS OF THAT MISSING MIDDLE
THAT 50 PERCENT RMI AVERAGE
MEDIAN INCOME TO EIGHTY PERCENT
RMI IN THE ENTIRE COUNTY AND I
INCLUDE EVERYTHING FROM STUDIOS
UP TO FOUR BEDROOMS.
SO IN CLOSING I JUST WANT TO
SAY OBVIOUSLY THANK YOU FOR
LISTENING AND GIVING THE
AUDIENCE AND AS I MENTIONED IN
A MEMO THAT I SENT JUST EARLIER
TODAY, WE RECOGNIZE THE
CHALLENGES OF HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY AND CONTRARY TO
WHAT SOME HAVE PURPORTED
SOMETIMES LOUDLY MCKINLEY BORN
AND RAISED A COMPANY HERE IN
BARBER STANDS UP VERY PROUDLY
AS A PART OF AN ARBOR'S
SOLUTION, NOT AS PROBLEMS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KAMAHL IGOR
.
GOOD EVENING.
AND HE WAS GOVERNOR GORE AND
HE'S BEEN LIVING HERE IN ANN
ARBOR SINCE 6:00 AND I CAME
TODAY TO MAKE A LITTLE SMALL
TALK.
I KNOW THAT EVERY ONE OF YOU IS
PRO-ISRAEL.
I KNOW THAT UNFORTUNATELY AND
IF YOU PRO-ISRAEL THEN YOU
SHOULD KNOW HOW THIS ZIONIST
STATE CAME TO EXISTENCE.
DO YOU KNOW I'M SURE YOU DON'T
COME HERE TODAY FOR THIS?
WE ARE GOING TO RUN A LITTLE
QUICK VIDEO FOR GOLDA MEIR WHO
IS THE MOST POPULAR ISRAELI
PRIME MINISTER DURING A
SEVENTIES SAYING WHO SHE IS
MANDATE PALESTINE.
JUST ONE SECOND, PLEASE.
SO GOLDA MEIR IS THE MOST
POPULAR ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
DURING THE SEVENTIES.
HEAR HER OUT AND SEE WHAT SHE
IS SAYING HERE.
YOU KNOW HOW THE ZIONIST STATE
KEEP EXISTENCE AS THE FIRST
WORLD WAR WHEN BRITAIN GOT THE
MANDATE OVER PALESTINE
PALESTINE THEY PALESTINE WAS
THE AREA BETWEEN THE
MEDITERRANEAN AND THE IRAQI
BORDER.
YOU SAY THERE'S NO SUCH THING.
THERE WAS NO EAST AND WEST BANK
WAS PALESTINE.
I'M A PALESTINIAN JINYAN FROM
TWENTY ONE UNTIL FORTY EIGHT I
CARRIED A PALESTINIAN PASSPORT
.
THERE WAS NO SUCH THING IN THIS
AREA AS JEWS AND ARABS AND
PALESTINIANS THEY WERE JEWS
ARABS.
I THINK THIS CLEAR I MEAN YOU
CANNOT DISCUSS WITH ME OK AND
THEN AFTER THIS WHAT HAPPENED
HOW THIS ZIONIST STATE CAME TO
EXISTENCE A GOOD INDIVIDUAL BUT
UNFORTUNATELY IT'S IN HEBREW
AND IT'S TRANSLATED TO ARABIC
AND IT'S GOING TO TAKE A LOT
MORE TIME TO TRANSLATE INTO
ENGLISH HOW THOSE MERCENARIES
GOT THERE WAS NO AGAIN SO THEY
WERE MERCENARIES KILLING THE
THE KILLING OF THE KILLED AND
EVACUATED PALESTINIAN VILLAGES
KILLING HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS
OF PALESTINIANS WOMEN KIDS AND
HOW MANY GIRLS YOU RAPED AND
HOW MANY PALESTINIANS YOU PUT
THE FIRE ON.
OK, BURN THEM ALIVE.
I HAVEN'T.
SO IF YOU'RE INTERESTED I COULD
YOUR BLADE FOR YOU BUT I'M SURE
ANYWAY COME TO YOUR CONSCIENCE
AS A HUMAN BEING.
THOUSANDS OF KIDS ARE BEING
KILLED.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS IMAD ZOLT
.
GOOD EVENING.
STILL MEMBERS OF THIS COUNCIL
MY NAME IS AHMED SAZONOV
HOWEVER SO I JUST WANTED TO
SHARE WITH YOU GUYS SOMETHING.
SO ON OCTOBER SEVEN THIS THIS
COUNTRY CONDEMNED THE BRAZEN
MURDER OF ISRAELIS IN ISRAEL
DECLARING THAT THE MURDER
OF INNOCENTS IS UN-AMERICAN AND
INHUMANE.
I'M VERY DISHEARTENED TO SEE
THAT THIS EMPATHY AND RATIONALE
DOES NOT EXTEND TO THE
CIVILIANS OF HAZAR WHO HAVE
BEEN WITHOUT WATER, FOOD AND
ELECTRICITY FOR OVER A WEEK
SUSTAINING CONSTANT
BOMBARDMENTS FOR CRIMES THAT
THEY DID NOT COMMIT.
THE HISTORY OF ISRAEL AND
PALESTINE IS WAY BEYOND THE
SCOPE OF MY QUALIFICATION AND
THIS MEETING.
BUT WHAT I'M ASKING IS THAT THE
CITY OF AN ARBOR STANDS WITH
HUMANITY AND RECOGNIZES THE
INDISCRIMINATE DESTRUCTION
OF INNOCENTS AND HELPLESS TO A
MILLION CIVILIANS HALF OF WHICH
ARE UNDER 18 YEARS OLD HAVE HAD
BEEN UNDER CONSTANT
BOMBARDMENT, STARVATION AND ARE
SUSTAINING AN UNPRECEDENTED
TRAUMA.
WAR CRIMES HAVE BEEN COMMITTED
WITHOUT ACCOUNTABILITY ALL IN
THE NAME OF VENGEANCE.
THE IDF OFFICIALS HAVE PUBLICLY
PUBLICLY REFERRED TO
PALESTINIANS AS ANIMALS AND THE
MEDIA HAS CONFLATED THE ACTIONS
OF A MILITANT GROUP WITH THE
ENTIRETY OF THE ARAB AND MUSLIM
POPULATION AND THIS IS NOT
WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE.
WILL COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE
AND ILLINOIS HAVE CONFIRMED
THAT THE MURDER OF WADIYA YOMI
A SIX YEAR OLD STABBED TWENTY
SIX TIMES BY HIS LANDLORD WAS A
HATE CRIME.
SORRY COMMITTED BY A MAN
RADICALIZED BY HIS RHETORIC.
ANN ARBOR IS A BEAUTIFUL CITY
AND IT'S VERY DIVERSE AND IT'S
AMONG THE SAFEST IN THIS
COUNTRY.
IT'S HOME, ROBUST AND
HARDWORKING LAW ABIDING
COMMUNITY OF PALESTINIAN
AMERICANS, MANY OF WHOM HAVE
FAMILY IN GAZA AND ARE
EXTREMELY DISTRESSED BY THE
CALLOUS AND INDISCRIMINATE
SIEGE.
I THINK I SPEAK FOR OUR ENTIRE
COMMUNITY WHEN I SAY WE WANT
PEACE AND SAFETY FOR ALL
DOMESTICALLY AND
INTERNATIONALLY.
I HOPE THAT THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR CAN STAND WITH HUMANITY,
CONDEMN THE MERCILESS CONDITION
OF THE SIEGE AND CONTINUE
ADVOCATING FOR THE SAFETY
AND
PROSPERITY OF ALL MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOAN
LOWENSTERN.
IT'S CUSTOMARY LATELY TO START
EVERY SPEECH ACKNOWLEDGING THAT
WE ARE STANDING ON OJIBWAY LAND
BUT I HAVE NOT YET HEARD ANYONE
SUGGEST THAT THE NATURAL
PROGRESSION OF THAT IS TO
ENCOURAGE THE OJIBWAY TO STORM
OUR HOMES AND KILL OUR
CHILDREN.
YET THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT THE
HAMAS APOLOGISTS ARE SAYING IN
RESPONSE TO THE MURDERS OF MORE
THAN THIRTEEN HUNDRED JEWS IN
ISRAEL BY ISLAMIC TERRORISTS.
I'M HERE BECAUSE AS A JEW I
HAVE SKIN IN THE GAME AND I
WILL NOT STAND BY WHILE
SO-CALLED ACADEMICS DISTORT
HISTORY TO ERASE JEWS FROM IT
TO ONLY CONDEMN ISRAEL'S
RESPONSE IS TO SIGN ON TO
JEWISH ERASURE.
JEWS HAVE NO RIGHTS TO
SELF-DETERMINATION IN THE LAND
THEY'VE CONTINUOUSLY INHABITED
FOR THREE THOUSAND YEARS, NO
RIGHTS TO LIVE IN PEACE
ALONGSIDE THEIR NEIGHBORS, NO
RIGHT TO EXIST.
IN NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN THE
UNITED NATIONS CREATED A TWO
STATE SOLUTION IN PALESTINE.
YET NO ARAB NATION ACCEPTED IT
AND INSTEAD ATTACKED THE JEWS.
TO THIS DAY THE STATE OF ISRAEL
DOES NOT HAVE A PARTNER FOR
PEACE AMONG THE PALESTINIANS
AND THAT BECAME SO PAINFULLY
OBVIOUS ON OCTOBER SEVEN HAMAS
IS AS DANGEROUS TO THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE AS IT IS TO
ISRAEL.
THE UN IS REPORTING TODAY THAT
HAMAS IS STEALING FUEL AND
SUPPLIES MEANT FOR HUMANITARIAN
AID.
HAMAS'S DECISION TO BE A PUPPET
OF IRAN AND INVEST IN MURDER
RATHER THAN GOVERNMENT MAY MEAN
THE END OF A POSSIBILITY FOR
PEACE.
I HOPE NOT.
IMAGINE THOUGH WHAT OUR COUNTRY
WOULD BE DOING IF THE TALIBAN
INSTEAD OF BEING THOUSANDS
OF MILES AWAY WERE LIVING NEXT
DOOR.
WOULD WE BE GIVING THEM WORK
PERMITS SO THEY COULD COME
SCOPE OUT OUR SCHOOLS AND
FIGURE OUT HOW TO KILL MORE
CHILDREN THERE IS A WAY TO END
THIS CONFLICT QUICKLY RELEASE
THE HOSTAGES AND SURRENDER THE
WEAPONS.
YOU CAN FIGURE OUT FOR
YOURSELVES WHETHER HAMAS WILL
DO THAT.
WE ARE ALL CAPABLE
OF UNEQUIVOCALLY CONDEMNING
HAMAS'S TERROR, SUPPORTING
ISRAEL'S RIGHT TO DEFEND ITSELF
AND DEMANDING THE UNCONDITIONAL
RELEASE OF THE HOSTAGES WHILE
ALSO DECRYING THE LOSS
OF INNOCENT PALESTINIAN LIVES.
ALL OF THAT IS NECESSARY IF WE
ARE EVER TO FIND A PATH TOWARDS
PEACE AS PRESIDENT BIDEN
STATED, THIS IS A FIGHT BETWEEN
GOOD AND EVIL.
I STAND WITH PRESIDENT BIDEN
AND I STAND WITH ISRAEL.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
GRISWOLD
.
I'D LIKE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
THESE ARE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT
TIMES BUT TONIGHT AS WITH
PREVIOUS MEETINGS, I'VE HAD TO
TALK ABOUT THIS VERY SIMPLE
ISSUE THAT'S THREATENING THE
SAFETY OF OUR CHILDREN AND
THERE IS A SOLUTION AND THERE
IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO CHANGE.
OVER THE WEEKEND I WAS TALKING
TO PRESIDENT SANTA ONO AND I
THANKED HIM FOR CHANGING THE
CULTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY AND
HE LOOKED AT ME LIKE WHAT YOU
MEAN?
AND I SAID THE UNIVERSITY HAS
BECOME SOLUTION ORIENTED
PREVIOUSLY MANY OF THE STAFF
AND ACADEMICS KEPT THEIR HEADS
DOWN BECAUSE TO DRAW ATTENTION
TO THEMSELVES COULD CAUSE A
PROBLEM.
SO THIS SAME TYPE OF CHANGE IN
THE CULTURE IS POSSIBLE WITH IT
WITHIN THE CITY OF AND OVER AND
THERE IS DEFINITELY THE ABILITY
AND THE SKILLS TO DO THAT.
HOWEVER, WE ARE NOT THERE.
I TURNED IN A TO FIX IT TICKET
ON SEPTEMBER 12.
PLEASE IMPROVE THE KINGS SCHOOL
CROSSWALKS.
WHAT I GOT WAS A STAFF REPORT
THAT INDICATED NEGLIGENCE,
FRAUD, OUTRIGHT INACCURATE
INFORMATION AND IT WAS THEY
REFERRED TO THE UNIMPROVED
PATHWAYS THESE PATHWAYS
ACCORDING TO GOOGLE STREET VIEW
TWENTY TWELVE WERE FRESHLY
BLACKED OUT.
THEY ALSO REFERRED TO THE
RAMP'S NOT BEING ADA COMPLIANT.
THE CROSSWALKS WERE PROBABLY
PUT IN AROUND NINETEEN SIXTY
NINE WHEN KING SCHOOL OPENED
THE ADA LAW WAS PASSED IN 1990.
THAT'S JUST SIMPLE ARITHMETIC.
THE SIGNS THAT WERE POSTED ARE
TWO ONE SIGNS.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE ANY
TRANSPORTATION EXPERTIZE USE
GOOGLE LENS.
THEY ARE SCHOOL CROSSWALK SIGNS
AND THESE SIGNS ON THE BACK
HAVE A LITTLE ADHESIVE TAG WITH
THE CITY SEAL TRAFFIC WARRANT
CONTROL SIGN OR SOMETHING TO
THAT EFFECT.
HOW CAN SOMEONE BE THAT WRONG?
I MEAN THAT'S FOR FOR ERRORS IN
SOMETHING VERY SIMPLE AND A
TEACHER POSTED ON THE WB BWC
LISTSERV THAT I'M READING THIS
WITH INTEREST AS AN A TEACHER
WITH A GOOD NUMBER OF FORMER
STUDENTS FROM HIGH SCHOOL.
WHAT BOGGLES MY MIND IS ALL
OF THIS AND THAT WITH THIS
CODE IN THAT SAME CODE AND
WHATEVER WALKWAYS ONLY
GOBBLEDYGOOK THE CITY OR ANYONE
ELSE COMES UP WITH THESE ARE
KIDS WE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE
SAFETY AND KEEPING THEM SAFE AS
A WALK TO SCHOOL.
ENOUGH SAID.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN.
PALIN PALESTINE WILL BE FREE
FROM THE RIVER TO THE SEA.
THAT MEANS PALESTINIANS WILL BE
FREE FREE FOREVER FROM AN
APARTHEID STATE ISRAEL WHICH IS
BOMBING ONE MILLION STARVING
TRAUMATIZED PALESTINIANS OUT
OF THEIR HOMES WITH YOUR TAX
DOLLARS YOU ARE PAYING ISRAEL
TO DO THAT.
WE SHOULD STOP LISTEN TO THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN STUDENTS
WHO TOLD YOU NOT A NICKEL, NOT
A DIME, NO MORE MONEY FOR
ISRAEL'S CRIMES WHEN YOU LISTEN
TO THEM AND WHEN YOU ACT ON
THAT YOU WILL APPROVE OUR
RESOLUTION WHICH SAYS SIMPLY WE
ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
SEVEN WORDS THEN OTHER CITY
COUNCILS WILL FOLLOW YOU,
CONGRESS WILL FOLLOW YOU AND
THE APARTHEID STATE WILL BE
STRIPPED OF ITS ATOMIC BOMBS,
ITS JET BOMBERS, ITS WEAPONS
OF MASS DESTRUCTION.
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED TO
ISRAEL'S VERY CLOSE ALLY, THE
APARTHEID STATE OF SOUTH AFRICA
WHICH IS NOW DEAD AND BURIED
AND NEVER COMING BACK.
DO YOU WANT TO BE REMEMBERED?
IS THAT AS A RACIST, AS
APARTHEID ENABLER, AS A PART AS
AN APARTHEID CITY COUNCIL WHO
HELPED ISRAEL COMMIT THEIR
FINAL SOLUTION AGAINST THE
OCCUPIED PEOPLE OF PALESTINE?
YOU CAN SEE ISRAEL'S FINAL
SOLUTION BLASTING THROUGH GAZA
RIGHT NOW YOUR PROGRESSIVE
VOTER WILL NOT THANK YOU FOR
WRITING THOSE TANKS IN THE GAZA
WITH ISRAEL.
STOP HELPING TO ARM ISRAEL AS
ITS SCARS AND BOMBS AND
MASSACRES.
ONE MILLION PALESTINIANS WHO
NEVER DID YOU ANY HARM.
LISTEN TO THE MICHIGAN STUDENTS
PALIS WILL BE FREE FROM THE
RIVER TO THE SEA.
PALESTINE WILL BE FREE FROM THE
RIVER TO THE SEA PAST THE SEVEN
WORD RESOLUTION THAT SAYS WE
ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
DO NOT LET YOURSELF BE
REMEMBERED AS AN APARTHEID CITY
COUNCIL DEALING DEATH TO MANY,
MANY THOUSANDS OF PALESTINIANS
WITH YOUR TAX DOLLARS DON'T LET
YOURSELF BE REMEMBERED THAT WAY
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOHSEN'S
OF IBSA.
FUNNY AND GENOCIDE IS ONGOING
WITH FULL SUPPORT OF THE UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT AND FULL
SUPPORT OF ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
I SAY THAT BECAUSE FOR THE PAST
TWENTY TWO YEARS I HAVE COME
HERE I HAVE DEMANDED THAT THIS
ASSEMBLY SAY THE SMALLEST THING
TO SUPPORT LIFE IN PALESTINE
AND EVERY TIME I HAVE OPENED MY
MOUTH TO SAY DON'T MURDER
PALESTINIANS, THEY HAVE ACCUSED
ME OF ANTI-SEMITISM.
THIS ASSEMBLY
HERE HAS HAD
MULTIPLE CHANCES TO STOP THE
CURRENT GENOCIDE AND THEY HAVE
DECLINED TODAY EVERY 15 MINUTES
ONE CHILD IS MURDERED BY THE
NAZI ZIONIST STATE OF ISRAEL
THAT NAZI ZIONIST STATE IS
DOING IT WITH BOMBS AND BULLETS
THAT THE UNITED STATES OFFERS
THEM YOUR TAX DOLLARS, BUYS IT
FOR THEM.
THINK ABOUT THAT ALSO THINK
ABOUT THE FACT THAT THAT MONEY
STATE HAS ENCIRCLED TWO AND A
HALF MILLION PEOPLE IN GAZA AND
IS CARPET BOMBING GAZA RIGHT
NOW AND TELLING PEOPLE TO
LEAVE.
THINK ABOUT THAT NO WATER, NO
FOOD, NO ELECTRICITY, HOSPITALS
OVERWHELMED AND YOU ARE PAYING
FOR IT.
AND NOT ONLY THAT AT A TIME
OF A GENOCIDE COLLECTIVE
PUNISHMENT, EXTREME EXTREME
BRUTALITY NO OF THIS CITY
COUNCIL ARE SITTING AND
GIGGLING TOGETHER AS IF THE
CASINO IS COMING.
THIS IS NOT A HUMANE CITY
COUNCIL.
IT HAS PROVEN TO ME I HAVE COME
HERE WITH A LOT LESS ANGER.
TWENTY YEARS AGO THEY HAVE
DRIVEN ME TO A POINT WHERE I
CAN SCREAM AND TELL THEM THAT
THEY ARE RACIST.
A GENOCIDE IS HAPPENING, A
GENOCIDE THE VERY LEAST YOU CAN
DO AT A TIME LIKE THIS IS TO
SAY DON'T GIVE THOSE BUTCHERS
ANY MORE GUNS, DON'T GIVE THOSE
VILE RACIST ANY MORE GUNS.
SAY THAT IF YOU DON'T YOU WILL
GO DOWN IN HISTORY ON THE SIDE
OF THE RACIST ZIONIST.
IF YOU SAY NOTHING YOUR HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION SHOULD JUST
CLOSE UP AND GO ON.
IT IS JUST A SHAMEFUL THING.
DON'T THINK OF THIS TOWN AS OH
SUCH A GREAT HAVEN FOR FOR
PROGRESSIVES.
IF YOU DON'T SAY ANYTHING AT A
TIME LIKE THIS YOU ARE NOT
PROGRESSIVE ARE NO MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
GOODMAN.
ADAM GOODMAN, YOU CAN GO AHEAD
AND SPEAK AT GOING IN FOR MORE
TIME.
I'M NEW REVELATIONS TONIGHT
FIVE SEVEN I WAS TO THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT DIVIDES
ABOUT THE GIANT FENCE ALONG THE
RAILROAD TRACKS THAT I
CONSIDERATION TO INCLUDE
PEDESTRIAN ACCESS ACROSS THE
TRACKS AND DOCUMENT THERE IS A
STRONG DEMAND, A NEED FOR SAFE
PROCESS AND D.C. FIRE STUDY TO
CONSIDER WHAT OPERATIONAL
IMPROVEMENTS UNQUOTE TO HAVE
TWENTY THREE NEED TO BE ABOUT
SOMETHING.
NATIONAL CONFIDENCE IS DOUBLE
SPEAK PROVIDED THERE WHILE WE
WAIT TO ADD BILLIONS TO IT A
LOT OF PEOPLE MAD ABOUT
RAILROADS THAT HAD ABOUT US
TWENTY THREE.
IT IS ALSO MASSIVE IN POLITICAL
DIVIDES.
OUR COMMUNITY IS ALREADY BEEN
BUILT ACTUALLY AT A PACE THAT
WON'T BE FIXING OUR BRIDGES AND
INTERCHANGES TO ABOUT PEOPLE
WALKING SAFELY ACROSS THE
HIGHWAY EVEN AS THEY'RE
PREPARING TO INVEST HUNDREDS
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN THIS
WIDENING PROJECT TO REDUCE
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED BY 50
PERCENT THAT WE WILL NEVER
SUCCEED IF THIS HAPPENS NEVER
RESOLUTIONS.
I HOPE YOU'LL APPROVE THEM
UNANIMOUSLY TONIGHT.
I GUESS I ALSO WANT TO TALK A
BIT ABOUT THE CITIZENS THAT'S
COME UP A BIT ALREADY.
YOU KNOW, FOLKS IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD HAVE BEEN FIGHTING
TO GET SAFE CROSSINGS ACROSS
JACKSON WEST HERE ON THE
DECADES I WAS ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF TOWN OF ABOUT HAVING THEIR
KIDS WALK ACROSS TO GET THE
SCHOOL PADS ARE STILL UPSET
ABOUT A PREVIOUS CITY COUNCIL'S
INEXPLICABLE DECISION TO TURN A
FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
TO SCHOOL GRANT TO BUILD
SIDEWALK NEAR ANN ARBOR STIEHM
ON THE NORTH SIDE WE UP IN
SAFETY AND ACCESS PROBLEMS
ACROSS OUR CITY BY THE SIDEWALK
AT THAT POINT IT'S GOING TO
TAKE DECADES, MAYBE OVER A
CENTURY TO GET TO.
SO MAYBE WE SOME PICTURES
OF PROBLEMATIC CROSSING IS A
GOOD WAY TO SCORE SOME
CHEAP POLITICAL POINTS BUT I
REALLY QUESTION WHETHER
NEIGHBORHOOD FULL OF LARGE
MILLION DOLLAR SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES SHOULD BE OUR SOLE FOCUS
IN THIS DISCUSSION.
WHAT WE NEED ARE SYSTEMIC
SOLUTIONS FOR SYSTEMIC PROBLEMS
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRANDON
DENHA.
JEFF
BRANDON DEMCHUK.
GO AHEAD.
I HAVE THIS FRIEND FROM WEST
TOWN IN THE WARD.
YOU HEARD HIM SPEAK BEFORE.
YOU KNOW THAT IT'S EXTREMELY
OUT OF CHARACTER THAT I HAVE TO
ASK FOR MORE PRACTICE IN THIS
CASE I'M ASKING YOU TO VOTE YES
ON EIGHT TO ENSURE THAT WE HAVE
A FAIR PROCESS FOR DETERMINING
WHAT TO DO WITH THE CITY ON
PROPERTY KNOWN TO MOST FOLKS AS
A KIND OF I UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE WAS AN UNSOLICITED BID
CITY BUT IN MY OPINION WHICH
ITSELF OF OUR PEOPLE IS THE
DOWNTOWN REAL ESTATE TO WHOEVER
SHOWS UP FIRST DEAL NEGOTIATED
IN PRIVATE AS FAR AS KNOW THE
POLICY COUNCIL THAT NEEDS NOT
TO BE USED FOR DEVELOPMENT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THAT
POLICY HAS BEEN CHANGED BY A
RESOLUTION THAT CERTAINLY CAN
BE CONVINCED THAT SELLING THE
LAND AND USING THOSE RESOURCES
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING ELSEWHERE
IS A MORE EFFICIENT LAND.
BUT THAT ARGUMENT HAS BEEN
SUCCESSFULLY MADE IN ITS CASE
IT SEEMS REASONABLE THAT IF
WE'RE GOING TO DEVIATE FROM
THAT COUNCIL POLICY THAT YOU
DISCUSS OPTIONS OPENLY AND
DELIBERATELY CHOOSE THAT AND
THAT WILL BENEFIT THE CITY
DIRECTLY.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO RECOMMEND
THE BEST USES FOR THE SITE AND
ALSO TO CREATE A PROCESS FOR
HOW WE USE THIS VIOLENCE.
PLEASE VOTE YES WE CAN ACHIEVE
THE BEST OUTCOME.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA?
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANTED TO REMIND FOLKS THAT
TOMORROW TUESDAY OCTOBER 17TH
AT SIX PM AT WEST BRANCH WHICH
WILL BE AN EARLY VOTING SITE IF
WE MOVE FORWARD WITH THE
RESOLUTION TAKE JOINT YOU CAN
JOIN THE WASHTENAW COUNTY
DIRECTOR OF ELECTIONS, OUR
ESTEEMED ANN ARBOR CITY CLERK
AND THE LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS
FOR A PRESENTATION ABOUT VOTING
RIGHTS FOR ELECTIONS THIS
NOVEMBER AND IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR AND TO LEARN ABOUT EARLY
VOTING OPTIONS THE PERMANENT
ABSENTEE BALLOT LIST AND HOW TO
BECOME A POLL WORKER AND THEN
ALSO JUST REMIND FOLKS THAT ON
OCTOBER TWENTY FOURTH AT SIX
P.M. AT MARLETTE'S CREEK
LIBRARY COUNCIL MEMBER DAZY
EDVIN AND I WILL BE HOSTING OUR
COMMUNITY LISTENING HOUR AND
ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO JOIN US.
COUNCILMAN ROSOL, I LIKE TO
THANK FOLKS FOR COMING OUT TO
THE DC ONE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
MEETING ON PLYMOUTH ROAD LAST
WEEK.
WE HAD A PRETTY GOOD TURNOUT.
A LOT OF QUESTIONS AGAIN THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT HAS TO GO
THROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION AND
UP TO COUNCIL VOTES.
SO REZONING IS A PROCESS BEFORE
IT COMES THE PLANNING
COMMISSION STAFF HAVE
ENCOURAGED FOLKS TO SUBMIT
QUESTIONS AND IDEAS TO PLANNING
AT HE TOOK UP DOUG.
I ALSO WANTED TO THANK THE
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR
RELEASING REALLY IMPORTANT
COVID RELATED PAPER MONEY
TOWARDS OUR SENIOR CARE.
SO THIS WAS VOTED ON THE ON THE
FOURTH OF THE THREE POINT EIGHT
MILLION TO GO TOWARDS IPSI
DUCKS FOR CHELSEA MEALS ON
WHEELS.
OUR SENIORS WHO ARE IN PUBLIC
HOUSING IT WAS THEY WERE
REMINDED THAT THOSE 65 AND
OLDER ACCOUNTED FOR MORE THAN
80 PERCENT OF COVID RELATED
DEATHS THROUGH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
SO I WANTED TO SEND
APPRECIATION FOR COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS TO RESPONDING TO
THE ONGOING NEEDS OF OUR SENIOR
COMMUNITY COUNCIL RACKMAN THANK
YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO LET PEOPLE KNOW ABOUT
THE NEW PILOT BIKE PARKING
PROGRAM WHICH IS INTENDED TO
INCREASE BIKE PARKING
FACILITIES ACROSS THE CITY.
THIS INVITES BUSINESSES AND
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS TO EXPRESS
THEIR INTEREST IN HAVING
PARKING FACILITIES NEAR THEIR
LOCATION BY GOING THROUGH THE
ONLINE APPLICATION IN THE CITY
STREAM FORUM.
SO YOU JUST GO THERE AND LOOK
FOR BUSINESS BIKE PARKING PILOT
PERMIT.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN.
BRITISH.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO MENTION THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND I
WILL BE HAVING A JOINT
COFFEE HOUR FROM SIX THIRTY TO
SEVEN THIRTY ON TUESDAY
OCTOBER TWENTY FOURTH IN THE
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM OF THE ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY AND I
WANTED TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBERS
FOR MENTIONING THE GC ONE
DISCUSSION.
I WAS ON A LONG PLANNED TRIP
OUT OF TOWN THURSDAY NIGHT SO I
WAS NOT ABLE TO BE AT THE
SESSION BUT I APPRECIATE THAT
YOU ATTENDED IT AND ALSO WITH
WITH COUNCILOR WATSON.
THANK YOU BOTH.
I PROMISE YOU I WILL BE PAYING
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THAT AND
ALSO NOT JUST PLAYING AND I'M
GRATEFUL FOR YOU TO YOU FOR
EXPLAINING THE PROCESS.
THERE'S A LOT MORE PUBLIC
PUBLIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR INPUT
TO COME SO WE WILL BE HEARING
FROM YOU
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S
I JUST WANT TO LET FOLKS KNOW
THAT YOU ARE INTERESTED IN
MILLER AVENUE, THAT THERE'S A
PUBLIC MEETING THAT'S COMING UP
THIS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19TH
FROM SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY PM
IT'S A VIRTUAL MEETING AND THE
ZOO MEETING LINK WILL BE POSTED
ON THE CITY'S WEBSITE PROJECT
WEBSITE LATER ON.
I THINK THE DAY OF THE OF THE
MEETING AND BASICALLY IT'S
GOING TO BE FOCUSED IN ON
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS WHICH
MIGHT INCLUDE WHICH INCLUDE
WATER MAIN REPLACEMENT STORMS,
STORM SEWER IMPROVEMENTS, ROAD
REPAVING AND COMBINING A
SEPARATE BIKE LANES INTO A
SINGLE TWO WAYS CYCLE.
SO LOTS ON THE AGENDA TO
DISCUSS FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL
I'D LIKE TO
REQUEST CONFIRMATION OF THE
FOLLOWING APPOINTMENTS THAT
WERE PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL
FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE
OCTOBER TWO TWENTY TWENTY THREE
REGULAR SESSION TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSIONERSHIP SMITH
AND STEVE KAPLAN TO THE HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD FAITH RED WINE ON TEAU TO
THE DOWNTOWN ADVISORY PARTY TO
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY ANGELA JACKSON AND TO
THE COUNCIL ON DISABILITY
ISSUES ELENA CHAMBERS MAY HAVE
A MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH DISCUSSION ON TAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED.
I'D LIKE TO SUBMIT THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE ELIZABETH
DEAN FUND COMMITTEE.
SAMUEL ROSE TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
PRAVEEN SWAMI
MADE THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CONSENT
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BECAUSE HE HAD SECTION BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA
COUNCIL MEMBER.
I JUST THOUGHT IT WAS WORTH
NOTING THAT A FEW OF THE ITEMS
GOT PULLED FROM THE SCA ELEVEN
THROUGH THIRTEEN.
I NO LONGER I UNDERSTAND THOSE
WILL BE ON THEY'LL BE THEY'LL
BE COMING AROUND AT SOME POINT
IN THE NEAR TERM.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MCCONNELL VERY BRIEFLY I JUST
WANT TO COME SEE SEVEN WHICH IS
THE GRANDVIEW TRAFFIC COMING
THAT IS A CUT FROM DEXTER TO
JACKSON WHERE THERE IS FREQUENT
SPEEDING FROM WHAT WE'VE HEARD
WHAT I'VE HEARD FROM
CONSTITUENTS IN WARD FIVE AND
I'M THRILLED TO SEE THIS
PROJECT PROCEEDING FROM MY PART
I'D LIKE TO RECOGNIZE AND CALL
OUT C8 RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT
DISTRICT GEOTHERMAL GRANTS IN
THE US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY TO
SUPPORT GEOTHERMAL DESIGN AND
DEPLOYMENT AND TO ACTIVELY
DECARBONIZE OUR BRYANT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS IS A COMPETITIVE GRANT
THAT OUR CITY WITH THE THE
GREAT AND GOOD WORK OF THE THE
OSSI AND DR. STULTS HAS HAS WON
ONE OF THIRTEEN JURISDICTIONS
THROUGHOUT THE THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY IS GOING TO ENABLE US
TO EFFECT TO PUT TOGETHER A
PLAN TO SUPPLY GEOTHERMAL
ENERGY TO THE TWO HUNDRED AND
FORTY TWO HOMES IN THE BRYANT
NEIGHBORHOOD BRYANT ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL, THE WHEELER MAINTENANCE
CENTER AND A MENTAL HEALTH
FACILITY AS WELL.
IT'S AN INCREDIBLY EXCITING
GRANT AND PROJECT AND ONE THAT
HITS FOUR-SQUARE ON ALL OF OUR
EIGHT TO ZERO VALUES.
OUR GOAL TO ACHIEVE COMMUNITY
WIDE CARBON NEUTRALITY BY
TWENTY THIRTY ACCOMPLISHED IN A
JUSTIN MANNER.
THIS IS NOT JUST DALTON AND HER
AMAZING STAFF PUTTING PUTTING
THE R GRANTS WHERE OUR ACTION
IS OR OUR METAPHOR'S OUR MONEY
IS DOING GOOD WORK IN THAT THIS
IS AN INCREDIBLY EXCITING
PROJECT AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
TO SEEING ITS FRUITS FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL SONG I'D
LIKE TO ADD CYNTHIA TEN HOW DR.
STULTS AT A MEETING COMMITTEE
MEETING WITH U OF M AND THEIR
CAMPUS PLAN TWENTY FIFTEEN
WHICH INCLUDED POSSIBLE
GEOTHERMAL FIELDS WAS SMART
SAVVY ENOUGH TO ASK IF YOU HAVE
IN THEIR FUTURE PLANS WOULD
CONSIDER EXTENDING THAT THEIR
THERMAL FIELDS ACCESS TO
COMMUNITY MEMBERS OUTSIDE OF U
OF M.
SO I I REALLY LOVE THIS IDEA
THAT PERHAPS WHEN WE THINK
ABOUT ENERGY SHARED WE TALK
ABOUT SHARED USES AND HOPEFULLY
THAT'S A COMMITMENT AND YOU CAN
COME AROUND TO IN BEFORE 2050
FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'LL SAY VERY BRIEFLY EVEN
THOUGH RECOGNIZING I'M TALKING
TWICE FOR THE CONSENT AGENDA I
MEAN GOOD LORD THAT IS MY MY
THANKS TO OFFICE OF OS I HEAR
DR. STULTS IN MY HEAD REMINDING
ME THAT THE WORK IS NOT DONE
EXCLUSIVELY BY OSA AND
PARTICULARITY THE THE WORK DONE
TO TO IMPROVE THE BRYANT
NEIGHBORHOOD IS DONE WITH WITH
GREAT COOPERATION AND
LEADERSHIP FROM THE GROUND UP
FROM RESIDENTS WHO ARE KEY IN
DEVELOPING DESIGNING THE PLAN
TO CAN WHOSE KEY TO DEVELOPING
,DESIGNING AND IMPLEMENTING
THE PLAN AND THE WORK IN THE
OTHER AREAS AS WELL.
THIS IS THIS IS AN ALL HANDS
OPERATION AND ALTHOUGH ALTHOUGH
IT'S RIGHT TO PRAISE STAFF,
THERE IS MORE THAN ENOUGH
PRAISE TO GO AROUND AND THE THE
RESIDENTS AND OUR OUR PARTNERS
AND COLLEAGUES CAN FULLY
WARRANT THAT PRAISE AS WELL FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
I DON'T THINK I'VE EVER SPOKEN
ONCE AT A AT A CONCERN TO US
TWICE BUT SO BE FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAMILY CONSENT
AGENDA.
PLEASE SAY I OPPOSED THE
COUNCIL.
THE CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED
WITH 11 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH THE
AFOREMENTIONED C A TEN.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY THAT
MATTERS MUNICIPAL INTEREST WITH
PARTICULARITY OF COURSE THE
ITEM ON THE AGENDA THAT IS TO
SAY THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY
THE ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH
THE PUBLIC HEARING RELATES
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS.
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER ONE WHICH IS THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
ANNEXATION OF THREE SEVEN ZERO
ONE THREE SEVEN ONE THREE
RIVERSIDE DRIVE?
ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS THERE
ANYONE ONLINE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO
IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO.
TWO RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT AND
APPROPRIATE THE EDWARD BYRNE
MEMORIAL JUSTICE ASSISTANCE
GRANT JAG AWARD OF TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND EIGHTY SIX DOLLARS FOR
OPIOID HARM REDUCTION EFFORTS
AND SHARPS DISPOSAL.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP FOR
THIS HEARING
.
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE THE REGULAR
SESSION MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER
TWENTY SIX TWENTY TWENTY THREE
IN THE REGULAR SESSION MEETING
MINUTES OF OCTOBER TO TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
MINUTES ON FAVOR POSED MINUTES
ARE APPROVED SEE WHAT AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED THEILMAN
CODE ZONING OF THREE POINT A
FIVE POINT TWO THREE ACRES FROM
WPE TOWNSHIP TO PLL PUBLIC LAND
DISTRICT VACANT TREVER ROAD
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DIS
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF ONE ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED BY ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE ANNEXATION OF THREE
ZERO THREE SEVEN ONE OH
GOODNESS RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
THE ANNEXATION OF THREE SEVEN
ZERO ONE AND THREE SEVEN ONE
THREE RIVERSIDE DRIVE SEVEN
POINT SEVEN FOUR ACRES
OF MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER JEWISH BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BEKASI EDWIN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DB ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER JEWISH SO BE
ASKED TO APPROVE THE ANNEXATION
AND R ONE B IS ENDING OF THOSE
TWO ADJACENT PARCELS THEY ARE A
TOTAL OF TWO POINT SEVENTY FOUR
ACRES AND THERE CURRENTLY
LOCATED IN IN OUR TOWNSHIP BUT
THERE WITHIN THE CONTIGUOUS AND
THE LIMITS OF THE CITY WHICH
MEANS THAT THEIR TOWNSHIP
ISLAND SO ON THIS ONE THE
PETITIONER HAD REQUESTED ARWANI
ZONING AND HAS MADE IT KNOWN
THAT THEY INTEND TO SELL THE
PARCELS FOR DEVELOPMENT
OPPORTUNITIES.
CITY PLANNING STAFF
COMMUNICATED THE PETITION THAT
R-1 BE IT THAT THEY RECOMMEND
R-1 B BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE
MORE CONSISTENT WITH
SURROUNDING LAND USES AND IT
ALSO IS BETTER ALIGNED WITH THE
UPDATE OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
SURE THAT THIS IS FULLY
UNDERSTOOD.
YOU MAY HAVE NOTICED A TYPO ON
PAGE TWO OF THE STAFF REPORT
THAT REFERS TO THE STAFF
SUPPORTING R ONE.
A ZONING WOULD BE CLEAR THAT
STAFF SUPPORTS ARE WHEN THE
ZONING AND STAFF SUGGESTED IN
BECAUSE THEY IT IS CONSISTENT
TO INCREASE FROM ONE TO THREE
THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF HOUSES
THAT COULD BE BUILT ON THE
PARCELS SO ARWANI COULD
ACCOMMODATE ONLY ONE HOUSE
BECAUSE IT REQUIRES TWENTY
THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET OR A HALF
AN ACRE LOT MINIMUM AND THREE
QUARTERS OF AN ACRE ARE WHEN
YOU WOULD COMMIT UP TO THREE
HOUSES.
IT REQUIRES A TEN THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT OR ONE QUARTER ACRE
LOT MINIMUM SO I DON'T KNOW IF
I CLARIFIED OR MUDDIED THE
ISSUE.
THIS IS PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
FOR THE DISCUSSION OF THE
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED TO RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE LOCATIONS FOR EARLY
VOTING CENTERS FOR THE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR ELECTION CYCLE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER QUENELLE
SECOND I COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DB2
.
FOR MY PART I'M JUST WISHING TO
EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE TO OUR
INDOMITABLE CLARK MISS BUJI AND
AND ALL WHO WORK WITH HER TO
SUPPORT OUR ELECTIONS.
WE ARE SO I AM SO GRATEFUL THAT
THAT THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
THROUGH VARIOUS CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS HAS WORKED TO EXPAND
THE FRANCHISE TO ENABLE MORE
PEOPLE TO TO CAST THEIR BALLOT
WHETHER THROUGH ABSENTEE VOTERS
OR IN THIS THE VOTING OR IN
THIS CONTEXT EARLY VOTING THAT
WE ARE GOING TO BE ENJOYING THE
FRUITS OF IT FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED
DEBE THREE RESOLUTION TO
PERMANENTLY RELOCATE PRECINCT
FOUR THREE TWO FROM THE MARY
STREET POLLING PLACE TO THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN COLISEUM
AND PRECINCTS FOR THREE, THREE
AND FOUR AND THREE TO FOUR FROM
THE UM COLISEUM AND TAPPIN
MIDDLE SCHOOL TO THE ANN ARBOR
SENIOR CENTER BEGINNING WITH
THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY ELECTION
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF THREE COUNCILMAN RACKMAN
THANKS.
JUST WANTED TO SPEAK TO THIS
QUICKLY SINCE IT'S IN THE
FOURTH WARD THESE TWO PRECINCTS
ARE GOING TO HAVE THEIR POLLING
LOCATIONS MOVED TO THE SENIOR
CENTER.
THIS CAN ACCOMMODATE TWO
PRECINCTS THAT'S THE MOST
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED IS WHAT
THEY DETERMINED AFTER THE MARY
STREET IS GOING AWAY BECAUSE
OF A FALLEN TREE DAMAGED IT TOO
MUCH TO CONTINUE TO USE IT.
SO SIGNAGE WILL BE POSTED AT
THE AFFECTED LOCATIONS FOR THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR ELECTIONS
AND PEOPLE WILL ALSO BE GETTING
NEW VOTER IDENTIFICATION CARDS
IN ADDITION TO OTHER THINGS
LIKE PRESS RELEASES AND I
BELIEVE PEOPLE WILL GET MAIL
ABOUT THIS TOO IF I'M NOT
MISTAKEN.
OK, SO WE'LL BE GETTING
SOMETHING IN THE MAIL TOO ABOUT
US.
SO THANKS NERDISH.
SORRY I DON'T KNOW HOW TO DO
THIS IN ORDER.
I MAY HAVE MISLED THE PUBLIC
ALL WE DID TONIGHT ON THAT
RIVERSIDE DRIVE WE WERE VOTED
TO ANNEX WE HAVEN'T APPROVED
THE REZONING I DID MUDDLE THE
THING A LITTLE BIT SO SORRY.
SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF US ALL IS
FORGIVEN FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF DC THREE ON FAVORITE POST IT
IS APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION
TO ACCEPT AND APPROPRIATE THE
EDWARD BYRNE MEMORIAL JUSTICE
ASSISTANCE GRANT AWARD
OF TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND AND
EIGHTY SIX DOLLARS FOR OPIOID
HARM REDUCTION EFFORTS AND
SHARPS DISPOSAL MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON SCANBUY
COUNCILOR DISH DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPOINT
NONRESIDENT ELECTORS TO COUNCIL
ON DISABILITY ISSUES AND
ADVISORY AND AIRPORT ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER 017 BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL DISCUSSION PLEASE A DC
ONE ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT THUS ALL VOTE
IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THAT
SATISFYING THE SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC TWO RESOLUTION
TO APPOINT JUSTICE FRANCIS TO
THE INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION BY
COUNCILOR HARRISON SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO ALL
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED DC
THREE RESOLUTION TO MEASURE THE
IMPACT OF THE HOME ENERGY
RATING DISCLOSURE ANNUAL REPORT
ON RESULTS TO CITY COUNCIL A
MOVE BY COUNCILOR GARCA EDWIN
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC THREE COUNCIL BECAUSE HE
ON I THANK YOU MAYOR SO I WANT
TO THANK OUR SCIENCE CITY STAFF
FOR WORKING ON PUTTING THIS
TOGETHER.
THIS RESOLUTION JUST CAME OUT
OF THE DESIRE TO MONITOR
POTENTIAL UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES OF THE HERD RATING
ENERGY DISCLOSURE SPECIFICALLY
POTENTIAL TO INCREASE ECONOMIC
AND RACIAL DISPARITIES AND
PARTICIPATING IN OUR HOUSING
MARKET WHICH WE DON'T
ANTICIPATE AND WE HOPE IT
DOESN'T HAPPEN.
BUT WE KNOW THAT DATA IS
IMPORTANT TO EVALUATE SO THAT
WE CAN TWEAK THE PROGRAM IF
NEED BE WHETHER ITS DISPARITIES
OR SOMETHING ELSE.
SO WHAT THIS RESOLUTION REALLY
LAYS OUT IS THAT PRIOR TO
HEARD'S OFFICIAL LAUNCH WE WILL
PROACTIVELY TARGET RESIDENTS
FOR LOW INCOME, ENCOURAGE THEM
TO UNDERGO A FREE ASSESSMENT
NOW AND GIVE THEM PRIORITY
ACCESS TO RECEIVE THE CITY AND
STATE REBATES AND SUBSIDIES
THAT ARE AVAILABLE TO MAKE HOME
ENERGY UPGRADES.
THIS IS SIMPLY BECAUSE THE
FUNDING IS CURRENTLY AVAILABLE
IS NOT UNLIMITED AND WE WANT TO
PRIORITIZE.
I NEED AND CONTINUING TO
PRIORITIZE HIGH NEED ONCE THE
PROGRAM LAUNCHES AS I MENTIONED
DEVELOPING A COMPREHENSIVE
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
PROCESS WHICH WILL THE PROPER
DATA THAT NEEDS TO BE COLLECTED
WILL BE DETERMINED BY YOUR SIDE
AND THEN ESTABLISH AN ONGOING
REPORTING MECHANISM FROM CITY
TO CITY COUNCIL ON THE PUBLIC
AND HER IMPACT.
I HOPE THAT YOU WILL JOIN ME IN
SUPPORTING THIS TONIGHT BECAUSE
I THINK I THINK THAT IT WILL
HELP TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
IMPLEMENT THIS A AND A CAREFUL
WAY.
THANK FOR THE DISCUSSIONS.
COUNCILOR HARRISON, AT A TIME
WHEN OUR RESIDENTS ARE
CONFRONTING A THANK YOU SORRY.
THANK YOU MAYOR IS MOVING ON
ALONG AT A TIME WHEN OUR
RESIDENTS ARE CONFRONTING A
HOUSING CRISIS THAT IS CRUCIAL
THAT OUR STEPS TOWARDS A
CARBON NEUTRAL FUTURE DON'T
INADVERTENTLY CAST SHADOWS IN
OUR MARGINALIZED POPULATIONS
AND STRIVING FOR A ZERO
CARBON GOAL, WE MUST ENSURE
THAT NO RESIDENT IS LEFT BEHIND
ARE BURDENED UNFAIRLY THE
ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE
ORDINANCE IS INTENDED TO
EMPOWER CONSUMERS BUT IT IS OUR
RESPONSIBILITY AS CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS TO ENSURE IT DOES NOT
INADVERTENTLY WIDEN THE RACIAL
OR INCOME DISPARITIES IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE A DUTY TO
MAKE SURE THAT EVERY HOMEOWNER
HAS THE RESOURCES AND
INFORMATION THEY NEED TO THRIVE
BY OFFERING HOME ENERGY SCORES
FOR FREE AND PRIORITIZING
PRIORITIZING LOW INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS.
WE'RE NOT ONLY ADVANCING OUR
ENERGY GOALS BUT ALSO ENSURING
THAT THE FINANCIAL BURDEN DOES
NOT FALL ON THOSE LEAST
EQUIPPED BHARAT.
OUR COMMITMENT TO TRACKING
TRANSPARENCY AND PRIORITIZATION
AS OUTLINED IN THIS RESOLUTION
REAFFIRMS OUR DEDICATION TO
EQUITY AS A CO-SPONSOR I DO
WHOLEHEARTEDLY SUPPORT COUNCIL
MEMBER GAZY EDWARDS RESOLUTION.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON BRITISH.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU
COUNCILMAN BECAUSE GHAZI EDWYN
FOR HER WORK ON THIS RESOLUTION
AND I THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
LETTING ME BE PART OF IT FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
WE ARE ALL IN FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED DC FOR RESOLUTION TO
RESTORE COMMUNITY CONNECTIONS
WITH CONTINUOUS COMFORTABLE
WALKING AND BIKING FACILITIES
ACROSS US.
TWENTY THREE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN SEGNI COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S DISCUSSION OF DC
FOR AMERICAN LIGUE SO I WANTED
TO THANK STAFF FOR PREPARING A
VERSION OF THIS THAT WENT TO
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
LAST MONTH THAT WAS PASSED BY
THE AND THAT JUST TO SET THE
CONTEXT UP IS ENGAGED IN AN
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT STUDY
TO IN THEIR WORDS AS I THINK
ONE OF OUR PUBLIC COMMENTERS
SAID BEFORE QUOTE DEVELOP AND
EVALUATE ALTERNATIVES TO
IMPROVE OPERATION AND SAFETY.
THERE ARE PLANNING TO INVEST
SOME TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
MILLION DOLLARS REBUILDING THE
SECTION OF THE US TWENTY THREE
THAT RUNS ALONG THE EAST SIDE
OF ANN ARBOR RIGHT NOW THERE
ARE EIGHT CROSSING
OPPORTUNITIES ALONG THE EAST
SIDE BUT ONLY TO ACCOMMODATE
CARS.
THERE'S NO ACCOMMODATIONS FOR
PEOPLE WHO MIGHT BE WALKING
BIKING AND THAT'S DESPITE THE
FACT THAT MANY PEOPLE WORK,
LIVE AND PLAY IN THIS AREA.
SO REALLY WHAT WE'RE ASKING
OF IS FOR THEM TO TAKE THIS
RECONSTRUCTION AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO CONNECT WHAT
IT'S BEEN DIVIDED AND CREATE
SAFE ACCESSIBLE OPTIONS FOR
PEOPLE WALKING, BIKING AND
ROLLING TO CROSS THIS FREEWAY.
WE ARE ALSO ASKING THEM NOT TO
ADD LANES FOR AUTOMOBILE
TRAFFIC TO THE FREEWAY.
BUILDING BIGGER ROADS MAKES
CONGESTION WORSE THROUGH
INDUCED DEMAND CAPACITY
EXPANSION AT A TIME WHEN WE
REALLY NEED TO BE LOOKING AT
PROVIDING ALTERNATIVES LIKE
MASS TRANSIT.
IN FACT I WAS VERY INTERESTED
TO SEE AND PROJECT WEBSITE FOR
THAT.
THEY HAVE A PRESENTATION LINKED
THERE AND IT SAID THAT SOME
OF THE GOALS OF THE PROJECT ARE
SAFE OPERATION FOR MULTIMODAL
USERS ALONG IN CROSSING THE
CORRIDOR PROVIDING ADAPTIVE
SERIES OF SOLUTIONS TO MEET THE
CHANGING MOBILITY NEEDS
INCLUDING USE OF TRANSIT.
SO I REALLY DON'T SEE ANY
REASON NOR DID TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION SEE A REASON TO BE
ADDING LANE.
SO THIS IS AN INVESTMENT IT
PROVIDES A SIGNIFICANT
OPPORTUNITY TO ALLOCATE THE
BUDGET AND DEFINE THE PROJECT
SCOPE TO ADEQUATELY ADDRESS
MOBILITY NEEDS AND I HOPE THAT
MY COLLEAGUES WILL SUPPORT THIS
BRIGS COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
SAID IT SAID IT WELL A COUPLE
OF THINGS I JUST WANTED TO ADD
WAS THAT MATT HAS STATED THAT
IT PLANS TO DEVELOP AND
EVALUATE ALTERNATIVES BASED ON
THE NEEDS AND DESIRES
OF IMPACTED COMMUNITIES.
SO THIS RESOLUTION IS VERY
TIMELY IN THE SENSE THAT WE'RE
SHARING WHAT
YOU KNOW, WHAT OUR
GOALS ARE, WHAT OUR DESIRE IS
OUT OF THIS THIS STUDY AND
HAVING THEM ALIGN THEIR THEIR
STRATEGIES AND BUDGET TO
REFLECT THE COMMUNITY NEEDS SO
FOLKS WILL SUPPORT THE COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON, I'D LIKE TO
THANK TRANSPORTER'S AND
COMMISSION AND COUNCIL MEMBER
ECKMANN FOR THEIR WORK ON THIS.
BUT I ALSO WANTED TO MENTION
THAT SOME OF YOU KNOW THE
NORTHERN THREE OR FOUR OF THESE
CROSSINGS ARE IN WARD TWO AND
THEY CAME UP IN DISCUSSIONS
AROUND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS IN
THOSE AREAS BECAUSE THE LINKS
THAT CROSS PLIMOTH ROAD AND
GOING NORTH ON AREHART ROAD
AREN'T AS FRIENDLY TO WALKERS
AND BIKERS AS FOR EXAMPLE, THE
ONE FURTHER SOUTH GATTI'S ROAD.
AND I THINK PEOPLE IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD HAVE REALLY YOU
KNOW, ON THIS SIDE OF TOWN I'VE
REALLY ENJOYED THE ACCESS TO
THE BTB TRAIL AND ALL TYPES
OF THE IMPROVEMENTS WE'VE DONE
IN BIKING AND WALKING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND I THINK IT'S
ONLY KIND OF FAIR THAT THE
STATE SHOULD FOLLOW SUIT.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHY I SUPPORT
THIS AND WHY I'M HOPING TO
ENCOURAGE THEM NOT TO FOLLOW
THROUGH CONSERVER.
SO I WAS WONDERING IF WE KNOW
IF THAT'S OUR NEIGHBORING
TOWNSHIPS WOULD BE IN SUPPORT?
I WOULD ASSUME SO MAYBE PERHAPS
THIS IS SOMETHING IF WE PASSES
TONIGHT WE CAN PUSH OUR
TOWNSHIP NEIGHBORS TO ALSO
PASSED SIMILAR RESOLUTIONS IN
SUPPORT OF THIS RICHARD HORNIK
,MR. HAAS IS AVAILABLE TO YOU
WANT TO POSE A QUESTION TO HIM
.
BUT IN THE SPIRIT OF WHAT
COUNCIL WERE SAYING, WE COULD
CERTAINLY CONNECT WITH THE
TOWNSHIP AFTERWARDS TO SEE
THANK YOU.
I'M JUST IF WE'RE IMPROVING
THESE PATHWAYS, THEY'RE GOING
SOMEWHERE AND IT'D BE GREAT IF
WE HAD THOSE PARTNERS ALSO
LINED UP WITH OUR INTERESTS.
WANTED TO THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED FIVE RESOLUTION
TO APPOINT PATRICK MAGUIRE AS
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR INTERIM
POLICE CHIEF MOVI COUNCILOR
DENHA SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC FIVE COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
I AM HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS
APPOINTMENT THIS EVENING AND I
THANK MR DE HONI FOR MAKING IT
AND FOR THE MAYOR FOR BRINGING
IT TO US AND JUST WANT TO
EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE TO DC
MAGUIRE FOR HIS WILLINGNESS TO
SERVE OUR COMMUNITY ELEVATED
CAPACITY IN MY INTERACTIONS
WITH HIM SO FAR I'VE GREATLY
APPRECIATED HIS TRANSPARENCY
AND FRANKNESS, HIS
RESPONSIVENESS TO QUESTIONS,
HIS WILLINGNESS TO SHARE
INFORMATION AND ADDRESS
CONCERNS AND SIMPLY FOR HIS
PRESENCE AROUND THE COMMUNITY.
I LOOK FORWARD TO CONTINUING TO
WORK WITH HIM IN THIS NEW ROLE
AND HOPE MY COLLEAGUES WILL
JOIN ME IN SUPPORTING HIS
INTERIM APPOINTMENT.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO JUST TAKE
THIS OPPORTUNITY TO EXPRESS MY
DEEP GRATITUDE FOR INTERIM
CHIEF METZER AS SHE'S
APPROACHING RETIREMENT LATER
THIS WEEK OVER HER TWENTY FIVE
YEAR CAREER WITH THE CITY.
CHIEF METZER HAS BEEN A
CONSUMMATE PUBLIC SERVANT WITH
AN EXCEPTIONAL RECORD
OF SERVICE.
AS I'VE SHARED BEFORE, I'VE HAD
THE OPPORTUNITY TO BEGIN
WORKING WITH CHIEF METZER PRIOR
TO MY ELECTION THE COUNCIL WHEN
SHE REACHED OUT TO ME AS THEN
PRESIDENT OF THE GYMPIE CENTER
AS PART OF HER EFFORT TO
MAINTAIN A PDS RELATIONSHIPS
WITH MARGINALIZED COMMUNITIES
WHICH LATER INFORMED HER WORK
IN DEVELOPING NEW APD POLICY
AND INTERACTIONS WITH THE
TRANSGENDER COMMUNITY FOR THE
LAST FIFTEEN MONTHS SHE STEPPED
FORWARD TO LEAD THE DEPARTMENT
DURING A PERIOD OF TRANSITION
AND HAS PROVEN HERSELF TO BE A
STABILIZING FORCE WHO HAS ALSO
DEMONSTRATED THAT SHE IS
CAPABLE OF BEING MUCH MORE THAN
A SEAT WARMER WORKING WITH
COUNCIL TO IMPLEMENT
PROGRESSIVE POLICY CHANGE AND
NEED NEEDED ORDINANCE REFORMS
WHILE SIMULTANEOUSLY EARNING
THE CONFIDENCE OF THE RANK AND
FILE, KEEPING OUR COMMUNITY
SAFE AND MAINTAINING THE TRUST
AND RESPECT OF OUR RESIDENTS.
IN MY EXPERIENCE SHE'S BEEN
ACCESSIBLE, TRANSPARENT,
RESPONSIVE AND EFFECTIVE.
I'M IMMENSELY GRATEFUL FOR HER
SERVICE TO US AND TO ANN ARBOR
AND SO SHE'S NOT SORRY.
I JUST WANTED TO WISH YOU WELL
IN THIS NEXT CHAPTER OF YOUR
CAREER.
I'M GLAD YOU'RE NOT GOING FAR
AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE
.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
I TOO JUST WANTED TO THANK HER
AND FOR HER SERVICE TO THE CITY
AND TO WISH HER WELL AND HER
NEXT NEXT CHAPTER AND ALSO TO
WELCOME IN DEPUTY CHIEF PATRICK
MAGUIRE INTO THIS ROLE.
I'M EXCITED TO BE WORKING WITH
HIM.
IT'S BEEN GOOD EXPERIENCE IN
HIS CAPACITY AS DEPUTY CHIEF
AND IT'S EXCITING TO SEE
SOMEBODY STEP INTO THAT ROLE
WHO'S GREW UP IN ANN ARBOR AND
KNOWS THE COMMUNITY SO ALAN HAS
BEEN WORKING AT THE CITY FOR
FOR SO MANY YEARS.
SO THANK YOU FOR BEING WILLING
TO TAKE THIS ON FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
ONE OF THE OCCASIONAL
DISADVANTAGES OF TENDING TO
SPECULATE THAT PEOPLE OFTEN
WILL WILL SAY THAT WE'RE JUST
WELL, WE'RE I TOLD HER MY
SENTIMENTS WOULD BE MERE
REPETITION.
THAT IS TO SAY I'D LIKE FOR MY
PART TO EXTEND MY MY MY SINCERE
AND DEEP GRATITUDE TO CHIEF
METZER AND CONGRATULATE HER ON
RETIREMENT AND HER TRANSITION
TO RIGHT ACROSS THE ROAD ACROSS
THE RIVER WE HAVE BEEN FOR TWO
DECADES AND A HALF THE THE
BENEFICIARY OF HER SERVICE TO
OUR COMMUNITY AND I I FOR ONE
AM INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL FOR IT.
PLEASED AND DELIGHTED TO
WELCOME DCI MAGUIRE TO THE POST
OF INTERIM CHIEF.
IT'S BEEN MY PLEASURE TO WORK
WITH HIM AS WELL OVER OVER THE
YEARS AND LOOK FORWARD TO DOING
SO IN THIS NEW ROLE.
IT'S GOING TO I THINK BE AN
EXCITING TIME FOR ANN ARBOR FOR
THE DEPARTMENT AS WE WORK
TOGETHER TO TO KEEP OUR
COMMUNITY SAFE AND TO ENSURE
THAT IT IS A PLACE THAT IS IS
WELCOMING AND JUST FOR EVERYONE
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE
POSED IT IS PROVED
CONGRATULATIONS DC SIX
RESOLUTION FOR EVALUATION AND
INTEGRATION OF HOME ENERGY
SCORE ASSESSMENTS AND
RESIDENTIAL INSPECTION PROCESS
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
SIX COUNCILOR HARRISON SO WITH
THIS RESOLUTION THANK YOU MAYOR
WITH THIS RESOLUTION ASKING OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO COMPLETE
A FEASIBILITY STUDY OF USING
BUILDING INSPECTORS TO COMPLETE
THE HOME ENERGY STAR ASSESSMENT
AS A VOLUNTARY SERVICE DURING
THE RUN RENOVATION PROCESS AND
I JUST WANT TO THANK STAFF FOR
WORKING ON THIS AND MR
DELACOURT FOR THE TIME THAT HE
SPENT IN HELPING TO CRAFT THIS
AS WE JOURNEY TOWARDS A MORE
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE, WE ENACTED
A HOME ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE
ORDINANCE WITH THE BEST
OF INTENTIONS.
HOWEVER, I DID HAVE SOME
RESERVATIONS WHILE THE GOAL WAS
NOBLE I DID FEEL THAT HEARD
BEING MANDATORY AT THE POINT
OF SALE MIGHT COME OFF AS
PUNITIVE TO SOME OF OUR
HOMEOWNERS RATHER THAN AS AN
EMPOWERING TOOL FOR INFORMED
DECISIONS.
TODAY'S RESOLUTION OFFERS US AN
AVENUE TO EXPAND IN OUR
ORIGINAL VISION AND MAKE IT
MORE INCLUSIVE BY PROVIDING
FREE ENERGY HOME FREE ENERGY
SCORE ASSESSMENTS DURING
RENOVATIONS THAT AFFECT ENERGY
EFFICIENCY.
WE NOT ONLY INCENTIVIZE BUT WE
ALSO EDUCATE THIS APPROACH
ENABLES MORE HOMEOWNERS TO
UNDERSTAND AND EMBRACE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY WITHOUT THE FEAR
OF BEING PENALIZED.
OUR INSPECTORS PRIME FOR THIS
ENDEAVOR WITH THE FOUNDATION
FOUNDATIONAL TRAINING NECESSARY
FOR HERR'S ASSESSOR
CERTIFICATION.
BUT WHILE THIS PATHWAY MAY SEEM
STRAIGHTFORWARD, WE MUST BE
DILIGENT.
IT IS OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO
DELVE INTO THE INTRICACIES
OF COST COSTS, FUNDING AND
STAFFING BEFORE FULL
IMPLEMENTATION.
THIS RESOLUTION BEFORE US NOT
ONLY AIMS TO BROADEN HORIZONS
MAKING ENERGY EFFICIENCY
ASSESSMENTS MORE ACCESSIBLE TO
A LARGER SEGMENT OF HOMEOWNERS
BUT ALSO BY OFFERING FREE
ENERGY HOME ENERGY SCORE
ASSESSMENTS DURING SIGNIFICANT
RENOVATIONS WE NOT ONLY
INCENTIVIZE OUR RESIDENTS
TOWARD ENERGY EFFICIENT CHOICES
BUT ALSO GATHER VITAL DATA THAT
CAN HELP SHAPE OUR CITY'S
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE.
I HOPE THAT YOU ALL SUPPORT ME
IN THIS RESOLUTION AND SUPPORT
THOSE OF US WHO CO-SPONSOR AND
I THANK CO-SPONSORS FOR
SUPPORTING ME IN THIS.
THANK FURTHER DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER ARDINO, THANKS.
JUST VERY BRIEFLY, I DON'T HAVE
MUCH MORE TO ADD BEYOND WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON HAS
ALREADY EXPLAINED BUT I JUST
WANTED TO EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE
TO THE COUNCIL MEMBER FOR HER
HARD WORK AND EXTENSIVE
RESEARCH AND THOUGHT AND TIME
WENT INTO THIS AND WAS TRULY
COLLABORATIVE IN THAT PROCESS
BRINGING IN CO-SPONSORS OPEN TO
QUESTIONS AND IDEAS.
AND SO I'M JUST REALLY GRATEFUL
FOR THE COLLABORATIVE PROCESS
WITH WHICH THIS WAS DEVELOPED.
SO THANK YOU BUDISH REPEATING
WHAT SMOOTHBORE DENHA JUST
SAID.
I WANT TO THANK VERY MUCH
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON'S
LEADERSHIP ON THIS ISSUE AND I
THINK OOCYTE AND PLANNING FOR
THEIR SUPPORT AND I JUST WANT
TO UNDERSCORE THE POTENTIAL TO
REACH MANY MORE PEOPLE THIS
THIS THIS COULD HAVE BECAUSE
THE BUILDING INSPECTION SERVICE
INSPECTION SERVICES DEPARTMENT
COULD ISSUE UP TO FOURTEEN
THOUSAND PERSONS AND FIVE
THOUSAND HOUSING CERTIFICATIONS
.
THAT WOULD BE JUST THE TOTAL
FOR THIS PAST YEAR THAT THEY'RE
ON TRACK FOR THAT.
AND SO THAT'S WAY MORE SALES
THAN HAPPENED IN ANN ARBOR AND
YOU'RE ALSO OFFERING THIS
ASSESSMENT AT A TIME WHEN
PEOPLE ARE RENOVATING SO YOU
MIGHT AFFECT WHAT THEY CHOOSE
TO DO IN THOSE RENOVATIONS IN A
POSITIVE WAY THAT BRINGS MORE
ENERGY.
SO THIS IS REALLY TERRIFIC.
CHANCELLOR MARIAH.
OH, MY POINTS HAVE BEEN TAKEN
SO NOW I
SO I WILL JUST
REITERATE MY APPRECIATION FOR
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
I SAW THE WORK THAT SHE DID THE
RESEARCH VOLUMINOUS RESEARCH ON
THIS.
I KNOW IT CAME FROM A PLACE
OF WANTING TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
BOTH MEET OUR CLIMATE ACTION
GOAL AND ALSO DO IT IN A WAY
THAT'S EQUITABLE.
AND SO I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT
AND AND I DO IS SOMEBODY WHO
HAS RECENTLY HAD WORK DONE IN
MY HOUSE.
IT JUST MAKES A LOT OF SENSE TO
INTEGRATE INTO THIS PROCESS
WHEN YOU YOU KNOW, AS A
HOMEOWNER ALREADY GOT SOMEBODY
OUT THERE WORKING AND YOU'RE
JUST BEING TOLD A FEW EXTRA
LITTLE THINGS YOU COULD DO
MAYBE TO DECREASE YOUR ENERGY
BILL IS REALLY WHAT IT'S ABOUT
FOR THE HOMEOWNER IN ADDITION
TO THE CLIMATE ACTION.
SO THANK YOU AND I'M GLAD TO
SUPPORT THIS AND I'M VERY
CURIOUS TO SEE HOW WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO IMPLEMENT THIS FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED DC SEVEN RESOLUTION
AGAINST MOTT'S PROPOSAL TO
BUILD A WALL THROUGH ANN ARBOR.
MUBI FOURTEEN YEARS I'VE SEEN
THESE TITLES AND I DON'T THINK
I'VE SEEN ONE LIKE THAT BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG SECONDED
BY COUNCIL NO DIS DISCUSSION
EASE OF DC SEVEN COUNTS
OUTBREAKS THANK YES.
SO EARLIER THIS MONTH I
ATTENDED A PUBLIC MEETING AS
DID MY COLLEAGUES IN THE FIRST
WARD HOSTED BY THE MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
THE OFFICE OF RAIL REGARDING
AMDOCS PROPOSAL TO INSTALL
APPROXIMATELY SIX MILES OF HIGH
SECURITY FENCING ALONG THE
MICHIGAN RAIL LINE THROUGH ANN
ARBOR TO PREVENT TRESPASS.
AND THE ESTIMATED COST OF THIS
FENCE IS SIX POINT TWO MILLION
DOLLARS.
THE ROOM WAS PACKED WITH ONE
HUNDRED TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
PEOPLE.
I CAN ASSURE YOU THAT THE
RESIDENTS ARE NOT HAPPY TODAY
TO OVER FORTY FIVE HUNDRED
INDIVIDUALS HAVE SIGNED A
CHANGE DOG PETITION OPPOSING
THIS PROJECT.
THE FENCING WOULD BE PLACED ON
BOTH SIDES OF THE RAILROAD.
ONE SEGMENT BETWEEN FOSTER
BRIDGE AND VANDERMEER PARK
ABOUT TWO MILES IN THE SECOND
BETWEEN PLYMOUTH ROAD AND
GALLET PARK ROAD ABOUT FOUR
MILES IN OTHER WORDS AND THAT
IS PLANNING TO WALL THROUGH ANN
ARBOR.
THIS WALL WOULD NOT ONLY
RESTRICT THE MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE
BUT ALSO OF WILDLIFE INCLUDING
THOSE SEEKING WATER FROM THE
HURON RIVER.
IT ALSO CREATES SIGNIFICANT
SIGNIFICANT OBSTACLES TO
ADVANCING THE BORDER TO BORDER
TRAILER PARK STAFF AT BOTH THE
CITY AND COUNTY HAVE SHARED
THEIR CONCERNS AND SOUGHT TO
PARTNER TOWARDS BETTER
SOLUTIONS AND TO DATE AND THAT
HAS IGNORED THEM.
IN FACT, MY STAFF INDICATED AT
THE PUBLIC MEETING THAT THEY
WERE JUST LOOKING FOR FEEDBACK
ON WHICH FENCE TO PURCHASE.
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE SIGNAL
TO MEET IN OUR STATE
LEGISLATORS TONIGHT THE CITY
AND OUR COMMUNITY ARE FULLY
OPPOSED THIS PLAN AND THAT'S
HEAVY HANDED APPROACH ERECTING
A WALL FOR OUR COMMUNITY RATHER
THAN ADDRESSING THE ROOT CAUSE
OF TRESPASSING ON TRAIN TRACKS
IS AN EXAMPLE OF THE WORST
INCLINATIONS OF INSULAR
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES.
RESIDENTS HAVE CREATED ACCESS
POINTS THROUGH ALL PREVIOUS
BARRICADES BECAUSE
FUNDAMENTALLY THERE'S A GREAT
NEED AND DESIRE TO CROSS THE
RAILROAD TO ACCESS OUR
BEAUTIFUL PARKS.
THE RIVER AND OTHER
DESTINATIONS AND THERE'S A
STRONG DEMAND FOR LINEAR PATH
ALONG THE HURON RIVER.
OUR PARK STAFF AND
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE HWP HAVE
BEEN WORKING TO ADVANCE THE
BORDER TO BORDER TRAIL TO
ADDRESS THIS NEED AS THE
RESOLUTION CALLS UPON THEM TO
COME TO THE TABLE AND PARTNER
WITH THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND
OTHER LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS TO
SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT
OF LEGAL AND SAFE NON MOTORIZED
ACCESS ALONG THE RAILROAD
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
BORDER TO BORDER TRAIL AND TO
HELP SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT
OF CRITICALLY NEEDED ACCESS
ACROSS THE RAILROAD.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S FOR THE OTHER CORDISH
OF YEAH I WANTED TO THANK
APPROACH INITIATING THIS
RESOLUTION AND COUNCIL MEMBERS
SUPPORT DRAFTING IT.
THAT WAS A SURPRISING MEETING
THAT WE ATTENDED WHERE AND
EXPLAINED ALL OF THE PEOPLE
WITH WHOM THEY HAD CONSULTED
BUT THEY SEEMED NOT TO KNOW THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE VERB
INFORM AND CONSULT AND WHAT
THEY HAD DONE IS INFORM AND
THEY GENUINELY HAVE NOT ENGAGED
WITH STAKEHOLDERS IN ANY
MEANINGFUL WAY AND STAKEHOLDER
I MEAN THE CITY THE COUNTY AND
NONPROFITS SUCH AS THOSE
ENGAGED IN BUILDING THE BTB
TRAIL AND OTHERS AND SO IT
REALLY VIOLATES OUR STANDARDS.
I DO NOT KNOW HOW MUCH LEVERAGE
WE MAY HAVE OVER THIS BUT THEIR
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT BEGAN
AND ENDED WITH THE QUESTION
OF WHETHER ENDANGERED SPECIES
BE AFFECTED.
AND WHILE I OF COURSE THINK
THAT IT IS IMPORTANT NOT TO
AFFECT ENDANGERED SPECIES, THE
ISSUE HERE IS AN ISSUE OF THE
ECOSYSTEM AS COUNCIL BRIGGS
MADE VERY CLEAR IN HER REMARKS
AND THERE HAS BEEN NO SERIOUS
ATTENTION TO THAT BECAUSE THAT
IS WHAT WILL BE DISRUPTED BY
WHAT YOU HAVE APTLY IDENTIFIED
AS A LONG FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL RACKMAN THANKS.
I JUST WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT
AGAIN AS COUNCIL MEMBER GREG
SAID THAT THESE BARRIERS DON'T
WORK.
THEY DON'T GET THE PROBLEM
WHICH IS THAT PEOPLE NEED A WAY
TO CROSS AND THERE IS A SAFE
AND LEGAL WAY TO DO SO.
SO IT'S JUST BAFFLING THAT WE
KEEP CREATING BIGGER, BIGGER
WALLS AND IT'S FRUSTRATING.
I WOULD ALSO JUST SAY THAT ONE
OF THE RESOLVE CLAUSES IN HERE
SPECIFICALLY CALLS ENGAGING
WITH OUR LOCAL STATE
LEGISLATIVE DELEGATION.
I NOTICED I WATCHED THE MEETING
LATER ON OR AT LEAST SOME CLIPS
OF IT AND I NOTICED THAT
COMMISSIONER SCOTT SPOKE UP
VERY FORCEFULLY AGAINST THIS.
I BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE MANY
SUPPORTERS, ALL LEVELS
OF GOVERNMENT IN OUR AREA AND
SO I HOPE THIS WILL ALSO MAKE
ITS WAY TO COUNTY COMMISSION.
YEAH, MCCONNELL
AS COMES BACK
TO THE MEMBER DENHA THANK YOU
MAYOR I I TOO IS JUST BAFFLED
BY MY TAX PLAN HERE WHICH WHICH
RATHER THAN WORKING WITH US TO
CREATE SAFE PASSAGE PASSAGEWAY
FOR OUR RESIDENTS IS JUST
TRYING TO CREATE MORE OBSTACLES
OUT OF WHAT SEEMS TO BE MAYBE
THEIR OWN CONVENIENCE.
I'M NOT EVEN QUITE SURE IT'S
THAT I'M JUST GRATEFUL TO THE
SPONSORS FOR BRINGING THIS
FORWARD.
I DON'T THINK WE CAN SPEAK
LOUDLY ENOUGH ON THIS.
I KNOW THAT I'VE ALREADY HAD
SOME CONVERSATIONS WITH STATE
LEGISLATORS WHO ARE UPSET ABOUT
THIS AND ARE GOING TO BE USING
THEIR VOICES.
BUT TO THE EXTENT THAT WE CAN
CONTINUE TO APPLY PRESSURE TO
CHANGE COURSE, I I DON'T THINK
WE CAN DO ENOUGH.
SO I TOO WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED
TO IT AS A CO-SPONSOR.
THANK YOU.
OUR SONG.
I WANT TO THANK CONSTITUENTS
WHO HAD REACHED OUT ABOUT THIS
AND I THOUGHT AN INTERESTING
POINT THAT WAS RAISED WAS HOW
DIFFICULT IT WOULD BE FOR FIRST
RESPONDERS TO NAVIGATE
OFFENSIVE WAS THERE WE'VE HAD A
NUMBER OF EMERGENCIES AND
SITUATIONS ALONG THE RIVER AND
WE KNOW THAT AS YOU KNOW, NEW
PROJECTS COME ALONG THE RIVER
THERE'LL BE MORE USE BESIDES
THE THE HOW POPULAR THE RIVER
IS WITH WITH TUBING.
WE ALSO HAVE FOLKS WHO ARE
USING OUR PATH BIKERS AND
RUNNERS.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATED THAT
POINT FROM CONSTITUENTS WHO ARE
SAYING THAT WE ACTUALLY NEED
PRETTY CONSISTENT ACCESS AND
THIS LANGUAGE WOULD IMPLY THAT
WORK AND IN EMERGENCY RESPONSE
TO THE RIVER SO I'M IN FAVOR
THANK YOU TO EVERYONE FOR
FOLLOWING THIS TOGETHER FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
.
JUST ONE INTERESTING POINT THAT
I DIDN'T MENTION EARLIER THAT I
LEARNED FROM STAFF THROUGH THIS
PROCESS IS THAT WITH THE
EASEMENTS THAT WE'VE BEEN
GRANTED FROM THAT ALONG THE
RAILROAD, PARTICULARLY AROUND
GALIT PARK WHEN THERE ARE WHEN
THERE'S DAMAGE DONE TO THAT
FENCE THERE WE HAVE A FINANCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY TO FIX IT.
AND SO THIS IS ALSO AN
ADDITIONAL LIABILITY THAT'S
BEEN PLACED UPON THE CITY
BECAUSE I ANTICIPATE THAT FOLKS
WOULD FIND THEIR WAY THROUGH IT
.
FURTHER DISCUSSION IS IT'S
SURPRISINGLY IRONIC AFTER
HAVING MYSELF AND OTHERS WORKED
TO SEEK AMDOCS CONSTRUCTION
OF A WALL ALONG N14 THAT
FINALLY WENT AND THAT GETS IT
IN THEIR HEADS TO BUILD A WALL.
THIS IS WHAT WE SHOULD RECEIVE.
I'M SO GLAD THAT THERE IS A
BROAD BASED COMMUNITY VOICE
STATING THAT THIS IS THAT THIS
IS INDEED UNACCEPTABLE FOR IT
IS AND I LOOK FORWARD TO OUR
COMMUNICATION TO AND OUR
LEGISLATORS THE GOVERNOR'S
OFFICE AND LOOK FOR OTHER
ELECTED OFFICIALS, OTHER LOCAL
ELECTED OFFICIALS TO MAKE
COMMON CAUSE WITH US.
THIS IS A BAD SOLUTION FOR A
NON PRESENT PROBLEM FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF LABOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC EIGHT
RESOLUTION TO INFORM NEXT STEPS
REGARDING THE CITY PROPERTY
LOCATED AT ASHLEY AND WILL YOU
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SAYING THAT BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND
THANK YOU TO MY COLLEAGUES FOR
ENTERTAINING THIS LATE ADDITION
TO OUR CONSULATE GENERAL THIS
EVENING FOR ME AND I THINK I
CAN SAY FOR MY CO-SPONSORS AS
WELL THIS RESOLUTION IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD AND PROCESS
DRIVEN AS NOTED IN THE
RESOLUTION AS EARLY AS TWENTY
NINETEEN THE CITY PROPERTY AT
ASHLEY AND WILLIAM WAS
IDENTIFIED AS A SITE FOR
POTENTIAL FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
EARLIER THIS YEAR MR. TONY
ADEPTLY SUGGESTED TO COUNCIL
THAT THIS SITE WAS WORTH
EXPLORING FURTHER AND SINCE
THEN, WHILE COUNCIL HADN'T
REALLY HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
DISCUSS IT FURTHER, IT BECAME
CLEAR THAT THERE WAS
DEMONSTRATED INTEREST IN THE
SITE INCLUDING THROUGH AN
UNSOLICITED PROPOSAL FROM AN
INTERESTED DEVELOPER THAT THE
CITY RECEIVED THIS FALL
POSSIBLY BECAUSE THE CITY HAS
HAS RELATIVELY FEW PUBLICLY AND
PROPERTIES WHICH COULD BE
SUBJECT TO THIS TYPE
OF PROPOSAL.
WE UNLIKE OTHER CITIES THAT
HAVE CONSIDERABLY MORE PUBLICLY
ON PARCELS, HAVE NEVER
DEVELOPED A FORMAL POLICY ON
EXACTLY HOW TO HANDLE
UNSOLICITED OR UNSOLICITED
PROPOSALS WHEN THEY ARE
RECEIVED.
PERSONALLY I BELIEVE THAT
ESTABLISHING
PROCESSES AND
EXPECTATIONS IS CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT TO PROTECT BOTH OUR
CITY AND OUR TAXPAYERS AND IN
MY VIEW ESTABLISHING A CLEAR
PUBLIC PROCESS FOR HOW TO
RESPOND IN THESE SITUATIONS
ENSURES FAIRNESS, LEGITIMACY
AND TRANSPARENCY AND ULTIMATELY
STRENGTHENS PUBLIC TRUST.
SO WITHOUT REGARD TO THE
PROPOSAL THAT WAS RECEIVED
BECAUSE FRANKLY TO DATE I
SIMPLY JUST DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
INFORMATION TO HAVE FORMED A
FIRM OPINION ON IT.
I BELIEVE IT IS IMPORTANT FOR
US AS A BODY THROUGH THE
PASSAGE OF A RESOLUTION LIKE
THIS TO ONE PUBLICLY STATE THAT
WE ARE IN FACT INTERESTED IN
UNDERSTANDING THE BEST USE
OF THIS PROPERTY TO SUPPORT OUR
CITY'S NEEDS AND GOALS AND THEN
TO TO PUBLICLY DELIBERATE
POTENTIAL PROCESSES TO MOVE
FORWARD WHETHER IT BE AN
OUTRIGHT SALE AND RFP OR
ANOTHER PROCESS YET TO BE
DETERMINED.
THIS RESOLUTION ASKS FOR THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE
ADMINISTRATOR SO THAT WE AS A
BODY CAN DELIBERATE IN THE LINE
AND THEN ASK THE ADMINISTRATOR
TO INVITE THE INTERESTED
DEVELOPER TO PARTICIPATE FULLY
IN THAT PROCESS ONCE IT IS
ESTABLISHED.
FINALLY, I WANT TO SAY JUST AS
A PERSONAL ASIDE THAT ABSENT A
FORMAL PROCESS I DO THINK MR.
TONY HAS DONE AN EXCEPTIONAL
JOB NAVIGATING THIS TO DATE AND
AS USUAL HE CONTINUES TO
REPRESENT OUR CITY WITH
INTEGRITY, THOUGHTFULNESS AND
WISDOM.
I THINK IT'S EXACTLY BECAUSE
OF THE HARD WORK THAT HAS GONE
INTO THIS SO FAR THAT WE'VE
ARRIVED AT A POINT WHERE I
BELIEVE THAT COUNCIL NEEDS TO
WEIGH IN ON HOW WE WOULD LIKE
TO PROCEED.
SO WITH THAT I ENCOURAGE YOUR
CONSIDERATION OF THE
RESOLUTION.
THE COUNCIL MEMBER RIGGS, THANK
YOU.
SO LET ME BEGIN WITH THIS
RESOLUTION DOESN'T MEAN FIRST
IT'S DEFINITELY NOT A REBUKE
OF ADMINISTRATOR TONY.
IT'S CLEAR FROM HIS RECENT
PERFORMANCE REVIEW THAT COUNCIL
BELIEVES HE'S DOING AN
OUTSTANDING JOB AND THAT WE
HAVE GREAT FAITH IN HIS
LEADERSHIP.
AND SECOND, IT'S NOT A
REJECTION OF THE CONCEPT THAT
WAS BROUGHT FORWARD OF A HOTEL
AND CONFERENCE CENTER SPACE.
RATHER IT IS A RECOGNITION THAT
WE HAVE RESPONSIBILITY AS
COUNCIL TO ESTABLISH POLICY.
WE SHOULD NOT BE LED BY
DEVELOPMENT INTERESTS BUT
INSTEAD LEAD AND WORK WITH THE
COMMUNITY TO ESTABLISH A CLEAR
VISION AND PLAN TO ENSURE OUR
DOWNTOWN IS HEALTHY IN THE
FUTURE AND THAT WE HAVE THE
FINANCIAL RESOURCES NEEDED TO
ADDRESS OUR COMMUNITIES NEEDS
AND PRIORITIES.
THIS SITE HAS SIGNIFICANT
HISTORY IN OUR CITY.
WE HAVE WRESTLED FOR DECADES
ABOUT WHAT TO DO WITH THESE
PARCELS IN PART BECAUSE WE
RECOGNIZE HOW MUCH THE SITE CAN
SHAPE THE FUTURE OF ONE OF OUR
MOST BELOVED PARTS OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND THE FIFTH WARD
THE HISTORIC DOWNTOWN MAIN
STREET AREA.
FOR YEARS WE'VE HAD A STATED
GOAL OF INCREASING HOUSING
DOWNTOWN BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT
MANY MORE DOWNTOWN RESIDENTS
ARE ESSENTIAL TO A HEALTHY
DOWNTOWN.
IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE WE
UNDERTOOK AN EXTENSIVE PLANNING
PROCESS LED BY THE END OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION AND
RESIDENTS ARTICULATED A DESIRED
VISION FOR THIS SITE.
THROUGH THAT ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
WE LEARNED THAT THERE WAS A
STRONG DESIRE FROM RESIDENTS
AND STAKEHOLDERS TO MAXIMIZE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
DEVELOPED MIXED INCOME HOUSING
ON THE SITE TO ACTIVATE THE
GROUND FLOOR FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT
AND TO CONSIDER THE NEEDS
OF DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES.
HOWEVER, WHEN ADMINISTRATOR
MADE THE RECOMMENDATION IN
APRIL TO CONSIDER THIS PROPERTY
AS AN ASSET THAT MIGHT GENERATE
REVENUE TO ACCOMPLISH IMPORTANT
CITY GOALS, I WAS OPEN TO
ENTERTAINING THAT CONVERSATION
BUT I ANTICIPATED THAT WE'D BE
PRESENTED WITH RECOMMENDATIONS
AND COALESCE AROUND A SHARED
VISION BEFORE TURNING AWAY FROM
OUR MOST RECENT PLANS TO BUILD
MIXED INCOME HOUSING ON THE
SITE.
HOWEVER, THE ARRIVAL OF AN
UNSOLICITED PROPOSAL
INTERRUPTED THAT LIKELY PROCESS
AND HAS US CONSIDERING OTHER
USES LIKE A HOTEL AND
CONVENTION CENTER SPACE BEFORE
COALESCING AROUND A VISION.
IF COUNCIL DOESN'T SUPPORT THIS
RESOLUTION, WE WILL CONTINUE TO
WORK TO NEGOTIATE A DEAL WITH
THIS DEVELOPER.
BUT IT'S DIFFICULT TO IMAGINE
THAT WE WOULD GET THE BEST DEAL
BECAUSE WE HAVE NOT ESTABLISHED
A VISION OR GOAL OTHER THAN
GENERATING REVENUE WE HAVEN'T
ESTABLISHED WHY WE SHOULD TURN
AWAY FROM OUR PREVIOUS PLAN TO
BUILD MIXED INCOME HOUSING ON
THIS SITE.
WE HAVEN'T HAD PUBLIC
DISCUSSIONS WITH IMPORTANT
PUBLIC WITH IMPORTANT DOWNTOWN
STAKEHOLDERS OR THE PUBLIC TO
ESTABLISH THE NEED FOR A
CONVENTION CENTER HOTEL.
KNOW WHAT ATTRIBUTES WE MIGHT
WANT TO SEE FROM A CONVENTION
CENTER AND IF WE PROCEED WE
WON'T HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
COMPARE THIS PROPOSAL AGAINST
ANY OTHER POTENTIAL PROPOSALS
BECAUSE IT HASN'T BEEN
SOLICITED THROUGH AN OPEN AND
COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCESS AND
AS SUCH IT WOULD MAKE IT VERY
DIFFICULT AT LEAST FOR ME TO
SUPPORT ANY DEAL THAT COMES OUT
OF THIS PROCESS WHICH IS ALSO
NOT A FAIR POSITION TO PUT A
DEVELOPER IN THIS RESOLUTION
GIVES US THE OPPORTUNITY TO
IDENTIFY OUR GOALS AND VISION
FOR THE SITE, THEN CREATE A
PROCESS TO ENSURE WE CAN FAIRLY
EVALUATE ANY DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSAL AND UNDERSTAND IF IT'S
ALIGNED WITH THAT VISION.
SO I ASK FOR YOUR SUPPORT IN
MOVING THIS RESOLUTION FORWARD
THIS EVENING COUNCIL MEMBER
MAGGIE MAYOR.
SO I WAS HAPPY TO WORK ON THIS
WITH MY COLLEAGUES AND I THINK
IT'S PROBABLY SURPRISE NO ONE
THAT I BELIEVE THE PRINCIPLE
VALUE SHOULD ALWAYS BE APPLIED
WHEN OFFERING TO SELL ANY LAND
OR ASSETS OWNED BY THE PUBLIC
IN THIS CASE OWNED BY THE
CITIZENS OF ANN ARBOR AS
ELECTED OFFICIALS WE HAVE AN
OBLIGATION, A FIDUCIARY DUTY TO
SEEK THE HIGHEST, BEST USE
ACCORDING TO OUR IDENTIFIED
NEEDS AND GOALS AND TO SECURE
THE BEST PRICE FOR THE SALE
OF SUCH PUBLIC ASSETS.
IF THAT'S WHAT WE DECIDE TO DO.
THE FACT THAT THE CITY HAS
RECEIVED AN UNSOLICITED
PROPOSAL FOR THIS PROPERTY
CERTAINLY INDICATES THAT
THERE'S GREAT INTEREST IN IT
AND I BELIEVE IT SHOULD TRIGGER
AN ACTION BY COUNCIL TO EMPLOY
OPEN AND COMPETITIVE
COMPETITIVE BIDDING IN ORDER TO
OBTAIN THE HIGHEST AND BEST USE
AT THE BEST PRICE.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT AT
THE STATE LEVEL WHEN STATE LAND
IS DEEMED SURPLUS OR WHEN THERE
IS AN UNSOLICITED BID FOR A
PARCEL THAT AN RFP PROCESS IS
AUTOMATICALLY USED SO THERE IS
GOOD PRECEDENT FOR US THERE.
THE LAST PUBLIC CONVERSATION
REGARDING THE CLAIM THAT SET A
COURSE FOR HOUSING AT MIXED
INCOME LEVELS ON THE SITE TO
ADDRESS OUR HOUSING HOUSING AND
AFFORDABILITY CRISIS IF WE ARE
GOING TO CHANGE COURSE I
BELIEVE WE FIRST NEED TO HAVE A
PUBLIC CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT
AND IMPORTANTLY MAKE A SOLID
CASE FOR THE CHANGE I BELIEVE
THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE BEFORE WE
CONSIDER ANY PROPOSAL.
THEREFORE I WORKED WITH MY
COLLEAGUES TO PRESENT THIS
RESOLUTION WHICH ASKS OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO PROVIDE US
WITH HIS RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
THE BEST USE OF THIS PROPERTY
TO SUPPORT THE CITY'S NEEDS AND
GOALS AND THE POTENTIAL
PROCESSES TO MOVE US FORWARD.
THIS WOULD ALLOW US TO HAVE A
PUBLIC DISCUSSION TO EITHER
CONFIRM OR REDIRECT THE COURSE
FOR THE PROPERTY.
THE REASONS FOR DOING SO AND
THE PROCESS TO GET US THERE
FINALLY ASSUMING WE WOULD
PROCEED, THE PROCESS ITSELF
WOULD ALLOW FOR OPEN,
TRANSPARENT AND COMPETITIVE
BIDDING TO GET US THE HIGHEST
AND BEST USE OF THE PROPERTY
FOR THE BEST PRICE.
LIKE OTHERS I SHARE GRATITUDE
FOR THE WORK THAT ADMINISTRATOR
TONY AND STAFF HAVE DONE SO FAR
TO THAT AND AND WORK ON THIS
UNSOLICITED BID AND AND YOU
KNOW, I THINK AT THIS JUNCTURE
I'M MOST COMFORTABLE TAKING A
PAUSE FROM THAT COURSE AND AND
GOING BACK AND ADDRESSING SOME
OF THESE OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS
BEFORE WE CONTINUE.
I HAD FOR MY PART I AM I'M
EXTREMELY COMFORTABLE WITH
STAFF DISCUSSION WITH WITH OUR
SIDE TO EXPLORE WHETHER ESSI IS
ABLE TO PUT TOGETHER A PROPOSAL
THAT IS IN STAFF'S VIEW
SUITABLE FOR CONSIDERATION BY
COUNCIL AND THE PUBLIC AND AM
EXTREMELY GRATEFUL FOR THE
WISDOM, JUDGMENT AND EFFORTS
OF MR. HONY IN THIS REGARD AS
WELL AS THE REST OF THE
PROFESSIONAL STAFF.
THIS QUESTION AROSE AS A RESULT
OF ESSAYS UNSOLICITED
INITIATIVE DISCUSSIONS.
OF COURSE WITH THIS I REMAIN
NONEXCLUSIVE.
ANYONE WITH AN ALTERNATIVE
PROPOSAL MAY ENGAGE ON EXACTLY
THE SAME BASIS AS I IS
PRESENTLY ENGAGING NO, THE
PROCESS HERE IS IS ENTIRELY
CLEAR IF I HAD DISCUSSIONS WITH
STAFF DO NOT GIVE RISE TO A
PROPOSAL THAT IN STAFF'S VIEW
IS SUFFICIENTLY POSITIVE THEN
NO PROPOSAL WILL COME TO
COUNCIL IN THAT LIGHT THEN I
WOULD BE HAPPY TO ASK THE
ADMINISTRATOR AND STAFF TO TAKE
INITIATIVE AND TO DETAIL A
PROCESS FOR MOVING FORWARD.
IF ON THE OTHER HAND AND
STAFF'S COLLECTIVE VIEW THE
PROPOSAL TURNS OUT TO BE IN A
CONDITION FOR CONSIDERATION,
THEN THE DISCUSSION OF THAT
PROPOSAL'S BENEFITS, ITS
DETRIMENTS, ITS OPPORTUNITY
COSTS ITS ROLE IN IN OUR
DOWNTOWN AND SO FORTH THIS
CONVERSATION WILL BE LENGTHY
MULTISTAKEHOLDER PUBLIC AND
ENTIRELY TRANSPARENT IN PART I
BELIEVE BECAUSE THE RESOLUTION
WOULD DISRUPT CURRENT
CONVERSATIONS AND BECAUSE I
LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING IF THEY
CAN INDEED COME TO FRUITION
AGAIN TO PUT FORWARD A PROPOSAL
THAT WOULD BE SUITABLE FOR FOR
COMPLETE DISCUSSION.
I WILL TONIGHT BE VOTING NO
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER QUINNELL FIRST
OF ALL I WANT TO SAY THANK YOU
TO CITY STAFF ESPECIALLY MR.
DHONI AND HIS COURSE TEAMS.
I KNOW THAT YOU'VE DONE A LOT
OF WORK ON THIS.
I HAVE A LOT OF QUESTIONS AND
CONCERNS BUT I DON'T HAVE ANY
WAY TO ARTICULATE WITHOUT
SPECULATING BECAUSE WE HAVE NO
PROPOSAL DESPITE BEING ONE
BEING MENTIONED IN A WHEREAS
CLAUSE THE PUBLIC KNOWS AS MUCH
AS COUNCIL AND CITY STAFF ABOUT
WHAT ASI IS ENVISIONING FOR
THIS SITE.
THERE'S NO DEAL THERE HASN'T
BEEN ANYTHING DONE IN SECRET.
I'M NOT SURE HOW THINGS COULD
HAVE BEEN MORE TRANSPARENT AS
THINGS THAT TODAY AND I WANT TO
REITERATE MAYOR TAYLOR'S POINT
THAT ANOTHER DEVELOPER OR ANY
OTHER DEVELOPER DEVELOPER COULD
COME TO THE CITY WITH A
PROPOSAL, WITH AN IDEA, WITH A
NOTION OF WHAT THAT SITE COULD
LOOK LIKE RECEIVING AN
UNSOLICITED REQUEST IS NOT
UNCOMMON IN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
I CAN POINT TO SEVERAL PROJECTS
IN RECENT YEARS DUE TO MY
INVOLVEMENT WITH AN AIRBUS PARK
WHERE THE CITY WAS APPROACHED
BY A BUSINESS WANTING TO LOCATE
HERE NOTABLY BARRACUDA CLAYTONS
NOTORIOUS BECAUSE WE HAVE VERY
LITTLE OPEN LAND IN ANN ARBOR
AND A SCARCITY THAT IS OWNED BY
THE CITY.
THESE REQUESTS DON'T OFTEN
PROGRESS WITH CITY INVOLVEMENT
UNTIL IT'S PRETTY FAR DOWN THE
ROAD BECAUSE THE LAND
ACQUISITIONS PIECE IS DONE
BETWEEN A DEVELOPER IN A
PRIVATE LAND OWNER OR THE YOU.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT IN
THIS SPECIFIC SCENARIO
REGARDING SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
THE FOOTPRINT THE FOOTPRINT
EXCUSE ME REQUIRED TO BUILD A
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT THAT
INCLUDES A CONFERENCE CENTER
WHICH WE KNOW HAS BEEN A
PRIORITY FOR OUR LOCAL
CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU
FOR AT LEAST A DECADE SHRINKS
THE LIST OF PROPERTIES THAT CAN
WORK IN THE DOWNTOWN DDA
DISTRICT DOWN TO ONLY THIS
SPECIFIC PROPERTY IN TERMS
OF ENGAGING WITH BUSINESS
OWNERS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS,
TALKING TO THE DOWNTOWN,
TALKING TO DUSTIN ANN ARBOR IN
THE MAIN DOOR AREA ASSOCIATION,
WE KNOW THAT THIS TYPE
OF PROJECT HERE SPECIFICALLY
COULD HAVE AN ENORMOUS IMPACT
ON NEIGHBORING DOWNTOWN
BUSINESSES PLUS
BENEFIT
WALKABILITY AND OTHER THINGS
THAT WE I BELIEVE HOLD TRUE AS
VALUES WITHIN THE COMMUNITY.
I ALSO WORRY ABOUT EXISTING
PERCEPTION THAT ANN ARBOR IS A
PAIN TO DO BUSINESS WITH AND WE
DON'T HAVE THE BEST TRACK
RECORD OF OF RETAINING CITY
MANAGERS RECENTLY AND NOT
SUPPORTING THIS RESOLUTION
BECAUSE I WOULD LIKE TO SEE
WHAT MATERIALIZES FROM THE WORK
THUS FAR AND TO MAKE AN
EDUCATED DECISION AS TO WHAT
FOLLOWS.
THANK YOU.
BRITISH I THANK YOU MAYOR.
I ALSO WILL BE VOTING NO
RESOLUTION AND SPONSORS FOR
BRINGING IT AND VOTING NO NOT
TO USE HER JUDGMENT ABOUT THE
POSSIBLE DEVELOPMENT OF A
SPORTS THEMED CONFERENCE CENTER
ON THE CLEAN SLOT UNTIL I'VE
SEEN THE TERMS OF THAT
DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL AS COUNCIL
MEMBER POURNELLE NICELY PUT IT
THERE'S NO PROPOSAL YET.
I SEE THE CONTRIBUTION THAT A
CONFERENCE CENTER COULD MAKE TO
ANN ARBOR DOWNTOWN AND I KNOW
FIRST HAND HOW CENTRAL FOOTBALL
AND BASKETBALL AND ROWING EVEN
TO BEING ON THE HURON RIVER ARE
TO SO MANY PEOPLE'S ENDURING
LOVE OF AN IDENTIFICATION WITH
ANN ARBOR EVEN IF I MYSELF AM
MORE PARTIZAN AT HILL
AUDITORIUM THAN I AM OF THE BIG
HOUSE.
I ALSO WANT TO UNDERSCORE THAT
LEASING OR SELLING THIS
PROPERTY FOR PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT CAN BRING NEEDED
FUNDS INTO OUR GENERAL FUND TO
SUPPORT VITAL CITY PRIORITIES
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AMONG THEM
THAT WE NEED ADDITIONAL
RESOURCES TO REALIZE.
BUT I'M REALLY GRATEFUL TO THE
SPONSORS OF THIS RESOLUTION
BECAUSE I WELCOME THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO SPEAK
PUBLICLY AS A BODY ABOUT THIS
POSSIBILITY AND I DO ALSO HAVE
QUESTIONS THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
VOICE THAT WILL IN THE FUTURE
HELP ME EVALUATE THE TERMS
OF SUCH A PROPOSAL IF AND WHEN
IT COMES FORWARD.
I WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE
INFORMATION MEMOS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY AND CITY ADMINISTRATOR
WHEN THE TIME IS RIPE FOR THAT
ABOUT THE THINGS THAT WE CAN
ACCOMPLISH COULD ACCOMPLISH
WITH A CONFERENCE CENTER ON
THIS SITE AND ESPECIALLY OF THE
FINANCIAL COMPLEXITIES OF THIS
DEAL AND OUR STAFF IS
CHARACTERIS GENEROUS AND
THOUGHTFUL IN PUTTING TOGETHER
THESE MEMOS AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO SEEING THAT WHEN THE TIME IS
RIGHT.
UM, I ALSO HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT
OUR GOALS APART FROM THIS
SPECIFIC PROPOSAL WHICH WOULD
HELP ME THINK ABOUT THE
QUESTION WHETHER THIS IS A GOOD
WE CAN'T KNOW IF IT'S THE BEST
THAT'S TRUE BECAUSE WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT OTHER THINGS WE WOULD
GET IF IF IF WE GO WITH A
SINGLE SOURCE PROPOSAL.
BUT I'D LOVE US TO TALK ABOUT
OUR FINANCIAL GOALS ARE FOR
THIS ASSET.
DO WE WANT TO MAXIMIZE ITS
VALUE, MAXIMIZE IT WITHIN
CONSTRAINTS GIVEN BY OTHER
PRIORITIES SUCH AS A COMMITMENT
TO CARBON NEUTRALITY?
WHAT'S THE BEST WAY TO ACHIEVE
THOSE GOALS?
IS IT THROUGH OUTRIGHT SALE
GROUND LEASE?
DOES THIS KIND OF PROPOSAL GIVE
US MORE CONTROL THAN WE WOULD
HAVE IF WE SOLD THE PROPERTY
OUTRIGHT THESE ARE ALL
CONSIDERATIONS THAT I JUST
DON'T KNOW ENOUGH ABOUT NOW AND
I AM EXCITED ENOUGH ABOUT THIS
PROPOSAL THAT I'D LIKE US TO
MOVE FORWARD.
I'D LIKE US NOT TO STOP THE
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCILOR
SONG AND KAZULIN WHEN CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TONY BROUGHT THIS
FORWARD TO COUNCIL MEMBERS MY
RESPONSE WAS THAT EVEN THOUGH I
AM MYSELF NOT A BIT OF A
CONNOISSEUR OF LOCAL SPORTS, I
FULLY APPRECIATE THE FULL
MARKET VALUE THAT IT BRINGS TO
OUR CITY AND I LOVE THE
DISCUSSION AS TO WHETHER WE'RE
A CITY OF NERDS OR WE ARE A
CITY OF DUCKS AND GIVEN
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND THE
BENEFITS THAT WE SEE FROM
NEARLY DOUBLING OUR CITY SIDE
EVERY SIZE, EVERY COUPLE
OF WEEKENDS AND HOW OUR
DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES AND
BUSINESSES RELY ON SPORTS, I
WOULD SAY THAT WE'RE PROBABLY
MORE OF A CITY OF SPORTS GEEKS
AT THIS POINT.
UM, I YOU KNOW THIS RESOLUTION
HAS GIVEN ME A LOT OF THOUGHT
AND REVIEWING HOW WE HAVE USED
THE RFP PROCESS ON A PUBLIC
PARCELS AND I THOUGHT MIGHT BE
INTERESTING TO THINK A LITTLE
BIT MAYBE ABOUT THE LIBRARY LOT
AND HOW AT ONE POINT WHEN WE
DID SOLICIT OUR PS FOR THAT
SITE WE HAD TO HIRE SYBERIA
ZEEBRUGGE TO MARKET THAT SITE
AND RECEIVED NINE PROPOSALS.
AND I ALSO WANTED TO REFLECT ON
THE TIMELINE OF HOW THAT GARAGE
WAS BUILT IN 2009 AND HERE WE
ARE IN TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND
IF WE LOOK AT THE LOT AT THE
WHITE LAB AND WE ENTERED A RFP
PROCESS IN 2003 HERE WE ARE IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE SO WE CAN
ASK FOR A PROCESS WE CAN LOOK
FOR PARTNERSHIPS, WE CAN ALSO
FINALLY AT SOME POINT GET TO A
POINT WHERE WE CAN MAYBE
HOPEFULLY LOOK AT A SITE PLAN
BUT WE ARE SO FAR FROM ACTUALLY
LOOKING AT A SITE PLAN BECAUSE
WE DON'T HAVE A PROPOSAL BEFORE
US.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE YOUR
PROPOSAL.
I WOULD LOVE TO GO INTO CLOSED
SESSION AND ACTUALLY HAVE
GENERAL COUNSEL REVIEW IT WITH
US.
BUT AT THIS POINT I JUST SEE
SOME PRESS RELEASES FROM ESSI
MESSAGES AND MEETINGS FROM WITH
MR TONY IN ALERTING US TO EVERY
STEP THAT EVERY COMMUNICATION
HE'S RECEIVED AND I FEEL LIKE
THERE IS MORE INFORMATION TO
COME AND I'D HATE TO DELAY THAT
PROCESS.
SO ALTHOUGH I UNDERSTAND THE
INITIATIVE THE SPONSORS HAVE
TAKEN ON THIS, I ALSO WORRY
THAT I WORRY ABOUT WHAT THIS
SENDS, WHAT KIND OF MESSAGE IT
SENDS TO FOLKS WHO ARE LOOKING
TO PARTNER WITH OUR CITY.
SO I WILL BE VOTING NO SIR.
THANK YOU MAN.
I ALSO APPRECIATE THE SENTIMENT
BEHIND THIS RESOLUTION.
I'M ALL ABOUT TRANSPARENCY.
WE ARE ALL ABOUT TRANSPARENCY,
ABOUT PROCESS AND ALTHOUGH I
APPRECIATE THAT I'LL SAY THAT I
DON'T REALLY APPRECIATE THAT IT
WAS BROUGHT AT THE ELEVENTH
HOUR BECAUSE I THINK THAT THIS
RESOLUTION WILL INEVITABLY
AFFECT OTHER WORK THAT MR DE
HONY IS WORKING ON AND I WANT
TO KNOW THE IMPACT OF THAT.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE FOR
EXAMPLE, A CONVERSATION
HAPPENED WITH AN ADMIN
COMMITTEE IF YOU GUYS TO COME
BACK TO US AND TELL US THIS IS
HOW IMPLEMENTING THIS NEW
PROCESS WILL X, Y AND Z PROJECT
BECAUSE THIS RESOLUTION IS
REALLY ABOUT ALLOCATING TO HONY
AND CITY STAFF TIME AND
RESOURCES AND DOING OTHER
THINGS.
SO BECAUSE IT HAS COME SO LATE
AND BECAUSE I DO NOT HAVE
ANSWERS TO THOSE QUESTIONS I
WILL BE VOTING NO ON
IMPLEMENTING THIS PROCESS.
WHAT I FEEL LIKE IS THE LAST
MINUTE FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR WATSON, I WANT TO
ECHO A LOT OF WHAT MY
COLLEAGUES HAVE SAID ABOUT
NEEDING MORE INFORMATION AND
WANTING TO UNDERSTAND THE TERMS
OF A DEAL THAT STAFF WOULD
BRING TO US BEFORE MAKING A
DECISION.
SO SO I WILL BE VOTING NO ON
THIS RESOLUTION.
BUT I DO WANT TO STRESS THAT
THE DECISION TO CONSIDER THIS
LOT FOR DEVELOPMENT YOU KNOW,
FOR ANY ANY SORT FOR PROFIT
DEVELOPMENT ISN'T A VOTE ISN'T
A DECISION AGAINST AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BECAUSE AS FAR AS WE
KNOW, THE CITY HAS TIME AND
AGAIN LEVERAGED FUNDS TO TO
BUILD AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, OUR MILLAGE
GIVES US SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
A YEAR ON ON AVERAGE TO PUT
INTO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PROJECTS THAT MIGHT ONLY BE A
TENTH OF WHAT IS NEEDED FOR A
PROJECT AS BIG AS A CLIENT'S
LOT SOMETHING ON THE DOWNTOWN
CORE.
SO THERE'S NOT REALLY AN
ITERATION OF DEVELOPMENT ON
THAT SITE THAT DOESN'T INCLUDE
SOME SORT OF MARKET RATE
DEVELOPMENT AND BECAUSE OF THAT
OUR HOUSING COMMISSION HAS TO
SORT OF UNDERSTAND HOW TO
BALANCE ALL OF THOSE ISSUES AND
IT COULD BE THAT GETTING CASH
PAYMENT TO USE IN OTHER PARTS
OF THE CITY MIGHT NET US OUT
MORE UNITS IN THE FUTURE.
SO I DID WANT TO JUST JUST
POINT THE DRAW ATTENTION TO THE
FACT THAT THE THE MONEY WE
RECEIVE COULD COULD BE MORE
EFFECTIVELY USED ELSEWHERE IN
THE CITY FOR THE DISCUSSION
CALL ALTHOUGH PLEASE START WITH
COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN DUNSBOROUGH
ACKMANN NO COUNCILOR BREAKS.
YES, COUNCILOR CORNELL NOW
COUNCILOR.
YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON.
YEAH.
OH I'M SORRY I DO I'M SO SORRY
I'M SO SLEEPY.
WE'RE NOT FULLY HERE SO YOU
KNOW WAS MY VOTE I'M SO SORRY
CHANCELLOR HARRISON NO
COUNCILOR SONG NO COUNCILOR
WATSON NO THOSE WERE DENHA YES
THAT'S I HAD ONE NO MAYOR
TAYLOR NO NO NO IRE.
YES.
MOTION FAILED MISS COURT WE
HAVE THE PLEASURE OF CLOSED
SESSION.
YES PLEASE.
MAYOR TAYLOR AND I WOULD LIKE
TO CLOSE UNDER THE ACT QUICKLY
AND I'LL POINT EIGHT DAY AND
EIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THE MOTION PLEASE TO GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION ON THAT BASIS
MOVE BY COUNCILOR SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR BRIGGS DISCUSSION
QUESTIONED.
I'M SORRY MR TONY.
ARE WE GOING TOGETHER NOW?
NO, I'M CALLING ONE CLOSE
SESSION HOWEVER MR DE HONY AND
I WILL NOT
CONCURRENTLY BE
PRESENT IN THE CLOSED SESSION.
WE WILL ALTERNATE EXCELLENT MR
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE DON'T
COUNT ON AMERICAN YES RACKMAN
YES BECAUSE WE'RE BRIGS YES
WE'RE KORNEL SMARTISH YES
THAT'S HARRISON.
YES BECAUSE OF OUR SONG.
YES COUNCILOR WATSON.
YES DENHA YES I WAS WORKING
WITH THE ADMIN YES WE TAYLOR
YES FOR IHR YES WASHING CARS IN
CLOSED SESSION
OH, OPEN SESSION
MOTION PLEASE TO REOPEN THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON AND MY SONG DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED AGENDA IS OPEN
MOTION PLEASE TO AMEND TO AMEND
THE AGENDA MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE AGENDA BY
ADDING A RESOLUTION TO FINALIZE
THE EVALUATION REPORT FOR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR OUT IN THE
MORNING SECONDED BY COUNCILMAN
ROBERTS AND DISCUSSION FAVOR
POSED IT'S PROVED WE HAVE
BEFORE US THE CORRECTION
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS I HAVE MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE CORRECTION BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
SECRETARY COUNCILOR DISH
DISCUSSION WHILE FAVRE POSED
IT'S APPROVED IT'S CALLED
COMMUNICATIONS SOMEDAY AND THE
ABSENCE PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW
MADE THE MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL THINKING ABOUT CAMP
BRINGS DISCUSSION ON FAVRE
POSED RETURNED